Top Up TV - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us Contribute HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History Toggle History subsection 1.1 2004–06: Launch and early years 1.2 2006–13: On-demand and premium sports 1.3 2013: Loss of sports and closure 2 Services Toggle Services subsection 2.1 TV Favourites 2.2 PictureBox 2.3 Discontinued channels and services 2.4 ESPN 2.5 Sky Sports 3 Equipment Toggle Equipment subsection 3.1 Top Up TV Freeview+ box (DTR) 3.2 Set-top box (STB) 3.3 Conditional-access module (CAM) 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Top Up TV Add languages Add links ArticleTalk English ReadEditView history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions ReadEditView history General What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code Print/export Download as PDFPrintable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Former UK pay TV service This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Top Up TV" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this message) Top Up TVCompany typeLimited companyIndustryPay TVFoundedMarch 2004DefunctJune 2015Key peopleDavid Chance, Nick MarkhamProductsPay TV services programming Top Up TV was a pay TV service in the United Kingdom that was launched in March 2004, operating on the digital terrestrial television platform. The service aimed to "top up" Freeview customers by providing additional content and services through encrypted TV channels unavailable to other viewers. The service offered a variety of content from various providers through 'TV Favourites', and old and low-budget movies from NBCUniversal through PictureBox Movies, all of which could be viewed on demand. Top Up TV formerly offered live premium sports channels including ESPN, Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2. The service could be received by equipment having a built-in card slot: a DVB-T set-top box, a recorder or an integrated television receiver. As of July 2013, there were approximately 200,000 subscribers. In late 2013, Top Up TV ceased broadcasting and sold its subscriber business to Sky. History[edit] The company was founded by two former BSkyB executives, David Chance and Ian West. The management team consisted of Chance as chairman and Nick Markham as chief executive officer. Top Up TV was 20% owned by Channel 5 and restructured during 2006, with the original company liquidated under Members Voluntary Liquidation under the name Minds1. The owner of Access Industries, Len Blavatnik, is said to have purchased a 70% stake in January 2007. According to the Registre de Commerce et des Sociétés of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the accounts lodged by Top Up TV Europe S.a.r.l. in 2010 indicated costs of €38 million, debts of €23 million and ongoing losses of €21 million. 2004–06: Launch and early years[edit] Top Up TV, as Newincco 166 Ltd, bid for the multiplex D licence on the DTT service in 2002 in a joint application with Carlton, Granada and Channel 4, trading as the Digital Terrestrial Alliance (DTA). The company were prepared to offer a "viable" and "lite-pay" service, which would have provided a large number of free-to-air channels and a few pay-TV ones.[1] The bid was unsuccessful, and the licence was instead awarded to the BBC, BSkyB and Crown Castle, which later became National Grid Wireless. After unsuccessful multiplex bid, Top Up TV turned to public service broadcasters Channel 5 and Channel 4 to gain capacity on the platform. On multiplex A, Top Up TV were granted four long-term streams (one of which previously hosted TV Travel Shop), and on multiplex 2, were granted one short-term stream from Channel 4. They came up with a time-shared system which allowed 10 pay-TV channels to be broadcast in the space of five television streams, two of which were allotted "empty" space, which later became ABC1 and Teachers' TV. The sixth stream was used as a temporary measure (as of the short-term contract with Channel 4), and hosted pay-per-view channels Xtraview and Red Hot. Top Up TV focused less on the premium services which had been prominent on ITV Digital prior to 2002. By 2005, eleven channels were available on the service but were all timeshared. Overnight this dropped to as few as two channels (from the main package), in order to make space for premium adult entertainment channels. From its launch in 2004, a promotional video presented by Alice Beer ran on the channel placeholders and the Top Up TV Sampler channel. From March 2004, Top Up TV provided a package of 10 timeshared TV channels which was joined by an eleventh in 2005: UKTV Gold, UKTV Style, UKTV Food, Discovery Channel, Discovery Home & Leisure, TCM, E4, Bloomberg, Cartoon Network and Boomerang. On 27 May 2005, E4 left Top Up TV to become a free-to-air channel and was replaced by British Eurosport which began broadcasting on the platform on 1 June 2005. Toonami also joined the line-up. Discovery Home & Leisure was rebranded Discovery Real Time. In its first year of operation, the company made losses of £7 million. The original service broke even at 250,000 subscribers (according to some sources) around the Time Top Up TV Anytime was announced. This figure fell significantly short of the claimed potential subscriber numbers of 650,000 as set out in the original Freeview Plus proposal document, due to the differing market in 2004 and increasing competition from Sky (who had acquired ITV Digital's customer details) and cable TV companies. Top Up TV provided additional services such as Xtraview which offered Top Up TV channels on a per-day basis, but closed down after Channel 4 wanted the stream back for its own use. This was replaced for a time by Top Up TV Pay As You Go. Top Up TV Active was an interactive advertising service that replaced the off-air MHEG screens on channel 107; it also featured an audio version of QuizWorld. In August 2005, Setanta Sports broadcast live pay-per-view Scottish Premier League matches in conjunction with Top Up TV, using Top Up TV's Xtraview technology. Originally this was only available to viewers in Scotland, but was made available nationwide in early 2006. By 9 February 2007, all but two live channels on the service had been replaced with the push video-on-demand service, as the original package was slowly phased out. However, premium sports could still be accessed on a live basis. The Xtraview access control system was still in use for TelevisionX. 2006–13: On-demand and premium sports[edit] On 30 August 2006, Top Up TV announced that it was to launch a new service known as Top Up TV Anytime. The new service required a Top Up TV Anytime DTR, effectively a digital terrestrial television recorder, which allowed access to on-demand and encrypted channels. The original service, following Anytime's launch, was later mostly phased out, being reduced to two live non-sport channels, Gold and Home. Existing channels of the original service at launch closed down or had their hours reduced before being phased out completely. These channels, along with new channels such as Living and Disney Channel, joined the new service and began offering content on an on-demand basis. PictureBox Movies launched as a premium movies add-on in October 2006.[2] Also in 2006, Inview Technology launched the world's first push-VOD service for Top Up TV.[3] On 11 February 2007, Top Up TV's per-per-view Scottish Premier League matches were discontinued, and the Setanta Sports channel was made available on Top Up TV by a separate subscription. The Setanta Sports channel ceased broadcasting in June 2009 after the company went bust. In 2009, Top Up TV Anytime was rebranded into TV Favourites, spawning PictureBox and the newly launched ESPN into viewing packs available as part of TV Favourites or available separately. Monday 2 August 2010 saw Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 launch through Top Up TV.[4] Originally, four streams were used to distribute the TV Favourites service, but the fourth stream was taken off air on 11 January 2010. The third stream was pulled from air roughly ten months later. The first stream under the name of "Top Up TV Anytime 1" in the EPG timeshared with ESPN, and the second stream under the name of "Top Up TV Anytime 3" in the EPG timeshared with Home, Gold, and Television X. 2013: Loss of sports and closure[edit] In June 2013, following the acquisition of ESPN by BT Sport and the announcement of the removal of Sky Sports 1 & 2 from the Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT) network by BT, Top Up TV began sending letters to their customers stating that their premium sports package(s) would be discontinued. Sky Sports 1 & 2 were removed on 1 July, and ESPN on 1 August.[5] In September, Top Up TV sent customers on the TV Favourites and PictureBox packages letters informing them that the service would cease broadcasting on 31 October 2013 and that all remaining subscriptions will cease automatically. TUTV advised that the hardware will continue to work as a Freeview decoder. This brought the period of uncertainty about TUTV's future to an end. On 31 October, Top Up TV placed a notice on their website stating that they had ceased broadcasting.[6] The company sold their subscriber business to Sky where new subscribers to Sky could get up to 50% off for a year if they went through Top Up TV. Until June 2015, the company continued to run conditional access to the Freeview platform[7] which BT used to broadcast BT Sport 1 and 2. Services[edit] TV Favourites[edit] Launched in December 2006 as Top Up TV Anytime, the service offered video on demand content from many channels. In 2009, Top Up TV Anytime was rebranded as TV Favourites, as Top Up TV no longer needed the Anytime brand to differentiate its on-demand service from its previous linear service. The service was only accessible through a Top Up TV DVB-T DVR set top box. Content was available by pressing the Top Up TV button on the remote whilst watching a TV channel or perusing the EPG. Over time, channels like Living and Home were phased out, replaced by programmes from the BBC, Warner Bros. Television and The Walt Disney Company. The channel icons displayed on the Top Up TV EPG changed from being the logo of their respective channel in favour of a uniform genre list. Providers that were available at the time were: Comedy/Drama Gold United States drama from ABC Factual Crime & Investigation Network History Home PictureBox[edit] Main article: PictureBox Films PictureBox was a movies service in which around 28 old and low-budget movies were downloaded to the subscriber's Top Up TV Freeview+ box every night for a monthly fee. Movies offered were from the NBCUniversal library. Seven films were available at any one time, with titles being refreshed nightly. The service launched in October 2006 and was the first premium add-on available to Top Up TV customers. Top Up TV was the first platform in the world to host the service along with its TV programmes spin-off, TV Box. Discontinued channels and services[edit] Entertainment, factual and comedy Animal Planet – On-demand content MTV – On-demand content Paramount Comedy – On-demand content Syfy – On-demand content Life and Times – On-demand content Hallmark Channel – On-demand content Living – On-demand content Discovery Channel – Original channel and on-demand content Discovery Real Time – Original channel and on-demand content BBC Programmes – On-demand content CBS – On-demand content Warner TV – On-demand content TV Box (NBCUniversal) National Geographic Channel (UK) News and sport Bloomberg Television – Original live channel and on-demand content British Eurosport – Original live channel and on-demand content Sports Xtra – On-demand content Setanta Sports 1 – Premium sport channel, closed due to administration and subsequently closed down Film Turner Classic Movies (TCM) – Original live channel and on-demand content Kids Toonami – Original live channel and on-demand content Boomerang – Original live channel and on-demand content Cartoon Network – Original live channel and on-demand content Cartoon Network Too Nickelodeon Disney Channel ESPN[edit] Main article: ESPN (UK) ESPN was a premium sport channel offering Premier League football, among other sports, for a monthly fee. The channel could be accessed through a conditional-access module (CAM), set top box with a slot, an IDTV with a slot or through a Top Up TV Freeview+ box. It replaced Setanta Sports 1 when its parent company went into administration and was closed. Because this channel time-shared with the downloads for the TV Favourites service, it was barred from broadcasting 24 hours a day. Between Setanta Sports 1 closing and ESPN launching, ESPN America filled airtime whilst carriage negotiations were ongoing. The channel is still offered by BT TV under their BT Sport package. Sky Sports[edit] Main article: Sky Sports Sky Sports 1 and 2 were also offered as of 2 August 2010 as Ofcom's pay-TV review saw the channels being offered under a wholesale must offer (WMO) agreement which effectively forces BSkyB to offer these channels to its competitors. Using capacity which BT secured and used to offer the same channels to its BT Vision subscribers, Top Up TV also offered these two channels to its subscribers which officially launched on 2 August 2010. Top Up TV had been able to offer Sky Sports 1 & 2, and ESPN via a conditional-access module from October 2011.[8] This was possible only via CI+ compatible IDTVs and set-top boxes. Equipment[edit] A Top Up TV viewing card Top Up TV offered its services over a range of devices. The Top Up TV Freeview+ DTRs offered all services from Top Up TV. All Top Up TV set-top boxes and CAMs allowed access to ESPN whilst the CI+ CAM and approved set-top boxes allowed viewers to subscribe to Sky Sports and ESPN. A viewing smartcard (viewing card) is used to unlock customers' services. Top Up TV used the Nagravision Merlin (NagraVision 3) encryption since a card swap in 2008. Previously programmes were encrypted by MediaGuard SECA2, a more secure version of the encryption system of previous digital terrestrial incumbent ITV Digital. All Top Up TV set top boxes and DTRs were required to have at least an 8-day EPG, similar to the requirement for normal Freeview boxes. Top Up TV Freeview+ box (DTR)[edit] Main article: Thomson DTI 6300-16 A range of Top Up TV Freeview+ digital TV recorders, also known as DTRs, automatically records programmes broadcast overnight, which the user can then watch on-demand. The first generation box was manufactured by Thomson – Thomson DTI 6300-16 containing a 160GB HDD. Higher capacity boxes were introduced later on with the Thomson DTI 6300–25, effectively the Thomson DTI 6300-16 with a 250GB HDD. Different manufacturer's equipment such as Luxor, Bush, Sharp, Wharfdale and a new Thomson box were available from retailers such as Argos and ASDA. These newer boxes contain varying degrees of capacity ranging from 160GB to 500GB. Included in the packaging was a Top Up TV bespoke remote control and SCART lead, a signal improvement kit, an RF lead and a power cable. Printed materials include the Top Up TV welcome pack, a remote control codes guide and an instruction manual. The rear of the box had two SCART sockets, two tuners, an S-Video output, analogue phono output and Digital Audio output. It featured a powered but functionless USB port on the front or rear of the DTR. Set-top box (STB)[edit] Initially, Top Up TV made use of set-top boxes with viewing card slots to offer a linear pay TV service. At launch, only ex-ITV Digital boxes were available, but new boxes were soon produced, bearing the "Top Up TV Ready" logo. Since the unavoidable move towards on demand, the live channel hours were reduced and eventually closed. All previous "Top Up TV Ready" set-top boxes with viewing card slots were later only able to receive ESPN. With the launch of Sky Sports in 2010, BSkyB insisted that the viewing smart card must be paired to the set-top box. Whilst Top Up TV Freeview+ DTR's have this facility using the CAN number, few other set-top boxes offered this facility and had to be approved by Top Up TV. These approved boxes included the i-CAN Freeview HD Box, the Top Up TV T215 and Sagem IDT68 and IDT72. Conditional-access module (CAM)[edit] A conditional-access module can be inserted into a CI slot mostly found on modern IDTVs to enable decryption of encrypted services. Whilst Top Up TV offered a branded CAM, only ESPN could be received. This is due to BSkyB having concerns with the security of these modules meaning Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 are not available. CI+ CAMs were due to become available to overcome such security concerns, offering access to Sky Sports and ESPN from August 2011, but there were delays to the launch due to Top Up TV having difficulties trying to identify compatible devices. These devices finally appeared in October 2011.[9] References[edit] ^ "Regulator Archives" (PDF). Ofcom. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 August 2004. Retrieved 8 September 2016. ^ Welsh, James (18 September 2006). "Top Up announces movies on demand service". Digitalspy.co.uk. Retrieved 8 September 2016. ^ Technology, Inview. "History". Top Up TV. Inview Technology. Archived from the original on 12 December 2013. Retrieved 9 December 2013. ^ Laughlin, Andrew (2 August 2010). "Sky Sports 1, 2 go live on Top Up TV". Digitalspy.co.uk. Retrieved 8 September 2016. ^ Robert Briel (5 June 2013). "Top Up TV ends sports channels". Broadbandtvnews.com. Retrieved 8 September 2016. ^ "Top Up TV has ceased broadcasting". Top Up TV. 1 November 2013. Archived from the original on 5 November 2013 – via Internet Archive. ^ "Top Up TV Technical Support Advisory Service". Top Up TV. Archived from the original on 22 February 2014. ^ Love, Ryan (26 July 2011). "Sky Sports, ESPN to become available on Top Up TV CAM". Digitalspy.co.uk. Retrieved 8 September 2016. ^ "www.topuptv.com is coming soon!". Topuptv.com. Retrieved 8 September 2016. External links[edit] Official website, archived in May 2013 – via Internet Archive vteMedia in the United KingdomUK national newspapers, magazines, and other periodicalsNewspapers(history, circulation)Broadsheet Financial Times The Daily Telegraph The Sunday Telegraph The Sunday Times Compact The i Paper The Times The Guardian The Observer Middle-market Daily Express Daily Mail The Mail on Sunday Tabloid Daily Mirror Sunday Mirror Morning Star The Sunday People Daily Star Daily Star Sunday The Sun Sunday Sport Weekend Sport Midweek Sport Online 5Pillars The Independent Magazines andother periodicals List of magazines in the United Kingdom List of magazines by circulation Radio in the UKNationalstationsBBC BBC Radio 1 BBC Radio 1Xtra BBC Radio 2 BBC Radio 3 BBC Radio 4 BBC Radio 4 Extra BBC Radio 5 Live BBC Radio 5 Sports Extra BBC Radio 6 Music BBC Asian Network BBC World Service BBC National DAB (multiplex) Independent/ commercial Absolute Radio Network BFBS Radio Capital Capital Xtra Classic FM Digital One (multiplex) Gold Greatest Hits Radio Heart Hits Radio Jazz FM Kiss Network LBC LBC News Magic Magic Classical Premier Christian Radio RNIB Connect Radio Sound Digital (multiplex) Smooth Radio talkSPORT TalkRadio Times Radio UCB UK Virgin Radio UK Radio X Regionaland localstationsBBC List of BBC Local Radio stations BBC Radio Scotland BBC Radio nan Gàidheal BBC Radio Ulster BBC Radio Foyle BBC Radio Wales BBC Radio Cymru Cymru 2 Independent/ commercial List of community radio stations List of local commercial radio stations List of semi-national / regional analogue and digital radio stations Otherstations List of hospital radio stations Pirate radio Restricted Service Licence (RSL) List of RSL stations List of student radio stations Other Broadcasting House FM broadcasting Radio Academy Radio Academy Awards Radio Independents Group RAJAR Most listened to programmes Television in the UKPrincipalchannels(list)BBC/UKTV BBC One BBC Two BBC Three BBC Four BBC News BBC Parliament BBC Alba BBC Scotland CBBC CBeebies U&Alibi U&Dave U&Drama U&Eden U&Gold U&W U&Yesterday ITV ITV1/STV/UTV ITV2 ITV3 ITV4 ITV Quiz Channel 4/S4C Channel 4 S4C E4 E4 Extra Film4 More4 4seven Paramount 5 5Star 5USA 5Select 5Action Comedy Central Comedy Central Extra MTV MTV Music MTV 80s MTV 90s Club MTV Nickelodeon Nicktoons Nick Jr. Sky UK Challenge Sky Arts Sky Atlantic Sky Cinema Sky Comedy Sky Crime Sky Documentaries Sky History Sky History 2 Sky Kids Sky Max Sky Mix Sky Nature Sky News Sky Replay Sky Sci-Fi Sky Showcase Sky Sports Box Office Sky Sports F1 Sky Sports News Sky Sports Racing Sky Sports Sky Witness Warner Bros. Discovery Animal Planet Boomerang Cartoon Network Cartoonito CNN International Discovery Channel Discovery History Discovery Science Discovery Turbo DMAX Food Network HGTV Investigation Discovery Quest Quest Red Really TLC TNT Sports Narrative Entertainment UK Limited Great! Action Great! Movies Great! Romance Great! Real Great! TV Pop Tiny Pop ServicesandplatformsCurrent Amazon Prime Video BBC iPlayer cable Channel 4 digital digital terrestrial List of channels Disney+ EE TV 5 Freely Freesat Freesat+ Freeview high-definition List of channels ITV ITVX STV Player local television Now Netflix Paramount+ Pop Player Restricted Service Licence satellite List of channels Sky Group Sky Q Sky Glass Sky Stream TalkTalk TV TVPlayer U Virgin Media FilmFlex TiVo YouView Defunct analogue analogue terrestrial BBC Store Film4oD Real Digital Sky Group Freesat from Sky On Demand Sky+ Sky+ HD TalkTalk TV Store Top Up TV Virgin Media V+ StudiosCurrent 3 Mills Studios BBC Cymru Wales New Broadcasting House BBC Elstree Centre BBC Pacific Quay The Bottle Yard Studios Broadcasting House Broadcasting House, Belfast Broadcasting House, Bristol Dock10 Elstree Studios (Shenley Road) Gas Street Studios The Leeds Studios The Maidstone Studios Mailbox Birmingham MediaCityUK Old Granada Studios Riverside Studios Roath Lock The Sharp Project Sky Campus Space Studios Manchester Television Centre, London Defunct Broadcasting House, Cardiff Dickenson Road Studios Fountain Studios The Hospital Club Lime Grove Studios Limehouse Studios The London Studios MGM-British Studios New Broadcasting House, Manchester Pebble Mill Studios Teddington Studios Television Centre, Newcastle upon Tyne Television Centre, Southampton Upper Boat Studios Other Television in Northern Ireland in Scotland in Wales Defunct channels Edinburgh International Television Festival History List of years Viewing statistics Most-watched broadcasts Companies and organisationsMajorcompanies Banijay UK Productions Bauer Media Audio UK BBC Bloomsbury Publishing BT Group Channel Four Television Corporation Daily Mail and General Trust Dentsu International Economist Group EMI Music Publishing Future plc Global Media & Entertainment Guardian Media Group Haymarket Media Group Informa ITN ITV plc National World News Broadcasting News UK Newsquest Pearson plc Press Holdings Reach plc RELX Reuters Sky STV Group Syco TalkTalk Group Paramount Networks UK & Australia Virgin Media O2 The Walt Disney Company (UK) Ltd. Warner Bros. Discovery EMEA Resources Arqiva List of largest UK book publishers Government andregulatory bodies Advertising Standards Authority BBC Board (formerly: BBC Trust Board of Governors of the BBC) British Board of Film Classification British Film Institute Culture, Media, and Sport Select Committee Department for Culture, Media and Sport Independent Press Standards Organisation Ofcom Press Recognition Panel S4C Authority Industry andtrades bodies British Academy of Film and Television Arts British Phonographic Industry Broadcasting, Entertainment, Cinematograph and Theatre Union Clearcast Digital TV Group Equity Everyone TV Federation Against Copyright Theft Independent Publishers Guild National Union of Journalists The Publishers Association Royal Television Society United Kingdom Independent Broadcasting Other BBC Academy National Film and Television School National Science and Media Museum Regional, student and community mediaRegional media Media in England Birmingham London Manchester Media in Scotland Aberdeen Dundee Glasgow Media in Wales Cardiff Student media Student television Student press Community media Islam21c Category vteCable television providersvteCable, satellite, and other specialty television providers in Africa, Asia and OceaniaCable Air Cable Alma TV Asianet Digital Cable Networks Akita Cablelink DEN Networks Docomo Pacific First Media GMM Z Hathway Hot Inwi J:COM Macau Cable TV Parasat Cable Television Planet Cable PPCTV Rostelecom Siti Networks Sky Cable Sonatel TACTV Tokai Cable TransACT TrueVisions VTVCab WorldCall Satellite Airtel digital TV Akash DTH (Bangladesh) Astro (Malaysia) Canal+ Afrique Canal+ Calédonie Canal+ (Myanmar) Cignal D2h DD Free Dish DDishTV Dialog TV (Sri Lanka) Dish TV (India) Dish TV (Sri Lanka) DishHome DStv (Sub-Saharan Africa) Foxtel (Australia) GMM Z G Sat K+ (Vietnam) beIN KT SkyLife ME Digital TV MediaNet MBC MNC Vision NJOI NTV Plus OpenView HD (South Africa) OSN (Middle East and North Africa) RealVU SatLite Sky Direct Sky Pacific SKY PerfecTV! Sky (New Zealand) Sky Net Sky Vision (Ivory Coast) StarSat StarTimes Sun Direct Tata Play Transvision (Indonesia) TrueVisions Wowow Yes (Israel) ZAP IPTV Alou B TV Cignal Cellcom TV (Israel) Converge Vision DU Fetch TV Foxtel (Australia) Genie TV GTA Teleguam LG Uplus Maroc Telecom My.T Now TV (Hong Kong) Omantel La TV d'Orange (Réunion, Mayotte) Rostelecom Saudi Telecom Company SFR (Réunion, Mayotte) Singtel TV (Singapore) SKY Media StarHub TV (Singapore) Streamtech Unifi TV (Malaysia) Unitel T+ Terrestrial ABS-CBN TV Plus Baron Digital TV Brigada DigiTV Canal+ (Myanmar) Freeview (Australia) Freeview (New Zealand) GMA Affordabox Idan+ Malivision Multicanal (Mali) MYTV (Malaysia) StarTimes Sulit TV Uzdigital TV Defunct /inactive ABNXcess Aora AstraSat Austar Boom TV (Cape Verde) Cable TV (Hong Kong) CTH (Thailand) Destiny Cable DirecTV Japan DishHD Dream Satellite TV Easy TV (Philippines) Galaxy (Australia) Gateway Television Global Cable HKBN bbTV HiTV Home Cable Igloo (New Zealand) Independent TV (India) Kamalak TV Kristal-Astro Kwesé TV Mega TV (Malaysia) Multivision (Sri Lanka) Neighbourhood Cable (Australia) OrangeTV Orbit Pacific Broadcasting Services Fiji SelecTV (Australia) Showtime Sky On Demand Thai Sky TV TVB Network Vision U Television (Malaysia) UBI World TV Vodafone TV (New Zealand) India Indonesia Philippines Europe Americas Canada United States Latin America and the Caribbean vteCable, satellite, and other specialty television providers in CanadaTerrestrial and satelliteSatellite Bell Satellite TV Shaw Direct CableMajor1 Cogeco (ON, QC) Eastlink (Atlantic, ON, Western Canada) Rogers Cable (ON, NB, NL, Western Canada) Vidéotron (QC) Minor Access (SK) BBS (Burgeo, NL) Cablevision (Val-d'Or, QC) CityWest (Prince Rupert, BC) MTS (MB) Novus Cable (select areas of BC Lower Mainland) Westman (Brandon, MB) See also : Defunct cable and DBS companies of CanadaIPTV Bell Fibe (Aliant) Fibe TV (ON/QC) MTS TV (MB) SaskTel MaxTV SkyChoice Atop SkyTV TekSavvy TV Telus Optik TV Tbaytel TV TotalTV VMedia MMDS Craig Wireless Middle East, Africa, Asia and Oceania Americas Europe 1More than 400,000 television service subscribers. vteCable, satellite, and other speciality television providers in EuropeCable A1 Bulgaria A1 Hrvatska Caiway Delta Digi DNA Eir Elisa Elta-Kabel ER-Telecom Euskaltel Go IPKO Kabelnoord Kazakhtelecom Kujtesa M&H Company Magenta Telekom Magnet Networks Magyar Telekom Melita MEO Miss.Net Monaco Cable Naxoo NetCologne NOS Nowo Orange Belgium Orange Luxembourg Orange Romania Play Post Telecom Primacom R Rostelecom SBB SFR STV AS Swisscom Tango TV Telecable Tele Columbus Telekabel Telekom Srbija Telemach Telenet Tet Toya Türksat Kablo TV UPC Switzerland Virgin Media Ireland Virgin TV Vodafone Czech Republic Vodafone Deutschland Vodafone España Vodafone Hungary Vodafone Romania VodafoneZiggo VOO WightFibre YouSee Ziggo Satellite A1 Bulgaria A1 Hrvatska Allente Bis Télévisions Bulsatcom Canal+ Canal+ Polska Canal Digitaal Cosmote TV D-Smart Digi DigitAlb Digiturk Focus Sat Fransat Freesat HD+ MAXtv (Hrvatski Telekom) La TV d'Orange M7 Magio TV MagtiCom MEO Movistar Plus+ NOS Nova NTV Plus Orange Polska Orange Romania Orange Slovakia Polsat Box Saorsat Sky Germany Sky Ireland Sky Italy Skylink Sky UK Telekom Hungary Telekom Srbija Télésat tivùsat Total TV Tricolor TV Turksat TV Vlaanderen Viasat Ukraine Vivacom Fibre/IPTV A1 Bulgaria A1 Hrvatska A1 Telekom Austria Allente Altibox Amis Andorra Telecom Beeline Bouygues Telecom Bulsatcom Cytavision EE TV eir Vision Free HT Eronet iNES KPN La TV d'Orange Magenta TV Magnet Networks MagtiCom MAXtv (Hrvatski Telekom) MEO Moja TV Moldtelecom Movistar Plus+ Nova Odido Orange España Orange Polska PrimeTel Proximus TV Scarlet SFR Síminn Smart Telecom Sunrise TV Super TV T-2 TalkTalk TV Telekom Srbija Telenor Telia Telia Digital-tv Teo LT TIMvision Tivibu Turkcell TV+ Vivacom Vodafone Greece Vodafone Ireland Vodafone Italy Vodafone North Cyprus Vodafone Portugal Vodafone Turkey XS4ALL YouView Ziggo Terrestrial BoxerTV (SE) Digea (GR) Digitenne (NL) EVOtv (Hrvatski Telekom) (HR) Freeview (UK) GO (MT) PlusTV (FI) PTDT (PT) RiksTV (NO) Saorview (IE) TDT (ES) TNT (FR) TV Vlaanderen (BE) Defunct @Home Akta Alice Home TV Alpha Digital Athina Sat blizoo Boom Extrasatelit Bragatel BSB Canal+ Spain Canal Digital Casema CenterTelecom Com Hem CTV Easy TV Get Infostrada TV Invitel ITV Digital Joyne Kosmos-TV Kabel BW Madritel Mediaset Premium N Neuf Cegetel TV North-West Telecom Numericable ONO On Telecoms Real Digital Quiero Television Radijus Vektor Southern Telecom Stream TV Starman TDC Tele2Vision Telfort TVTEL TV di Fastweb Unitymedia UPC France UPC Hungary Ziggo UPC Poland UPC Romania Uralsvyazinform Viasat VolgaTelecom Wind Vision Middle East, Africa, Asia and Oceania Americas Canada Latin America and the Caribbean United States vteCable, satellite, and other specialty television providers in Ibero/Latin America and the CaribbeanSatelliteRegional Claro TV DirecTV Movistar TV Canal+ Caraïbes (Caribbean) CANTV (Venezuela) Dish (Mexico) Entel (Chile) Green Dot (Caribbean) Inter Satélital (Venezuela) Nossa TV (Brazil) Oi TV (Brazil) SKY Brasil (Brazil) Sky México (Mexico & Central America) Vivo TV (Brazil) Cable Claro TV (Brazil & Colombia) Columbus/FLOW (Caribbean) Inter (Venezuela) Izzi Telecom (Mexico) Megacable (Mexico) Movistar TV (Argentina & Peru) Personal Flow (Argentina) Tigo Totalplay (Mexico) Une (Colombia) Xtrim (Ecuador) VTR (Chile) Fiber/IPTV bmobile (Trinidad and Tobago) Claro tv+ (Brazil) Digicel (Caribbean) Flow (Caribbean) Movistar TV (Argentina and Chile) Sky+ (Brazil) Vivo TV (Brazil) Zapping (Brazil and Chile) Defunct satellite GVT TV (Brazil) Qualy TV (Central America) Sky Argentina Sky Chile Sky Colombia Vivo TV (Brazil) Defunct cable ESTESA (Nicaragua) Metrópolis (Chile) Multivisión (Bolivia) NET (Brazil) SuperCable (Venezuela/Colombia) Defunct Fiber/IPTV Oi TV (Brazil) Middle East, Africa, Asia and Oceania Americas Canada Europe United States vteCable, satellite, and other specialty television providers (multi-channel video programming distributors) in the United StatesCable Altice USA Optimum Suddenlink Communications Armstrong Astound Broadband Grande Communications RCN Corporation Wave Broadband AT&T Alascom Blue Ridge Communications Adams Cable Blue Stream Breezeline Broadstripe Buckeye Broadband Cable One Hargray Comcast Xfinity Consolidated Communications Cox Communications Docomo Pacific Emery Telcom Full Channel GCI Mediacom Midco Liberty Puerto Rico Satview Broadband Service Electric Shentel Spectrum SRT Communications TDS Telecom Troy Cablevision TruVista Communications Vyve Broadband WOW! Satellite Claro Puerto Rico Dish Network DirecTV Glorystar Headend in the Sky Fiber/ IPTV Altafiber Hawaiian Telcom Claro Consolidated Communications EPB Frontier Fiber GTA Teleguam Midco NEP Datastream TV North State Communications Sonic.net TDS Telecom Verizon Fios Whidbey Telecom Windstream Kinetic Ziply Fiber VirtualMVPD DirecTV Stream Frndly TV FuboTV Hulu + Live TV Philo Sling TV Spectrum TV Stream Xfinity Flex YouTube TV Over-the-topVOD A&E Networks Crime Central History Vault Lifetime Movie Club Amazon Prime Video MGM+ Freevee ScreenPix AMC Networks Acorn TV AMC+ Hidive IFC Films Unlimited Shudder Sundance Now Allblk WE TV+ Angel Studios Apple TV BritBox Brown Sugar BroadwayHD Cineverse CONtv Docurama Dove Channel Fandor Screambox The Criterion Channel Curiosity Stream CW Seed Dekkoo Disney Disney+ Hulu ESPN+ DOGTV Dropout Eros Now Facebook Watch FilmRise Fox Corporation Fox Nation Tubi Hallmark+ Here TV Kino Lorber MHz Choice Kino Film Collection Kocowa Local Now MUBI Netflix NBCUniversal Peacock Vudu Xumo NFL+ Paramount Global BET+ Paramount+ Noggin Pluto TV Showtime Racetrack Television Network Redbox Revry Roku Channel Sony Crunchyroll Samsung TV Plus Shout! Factory TV Starz Stirr Univision Pantaya Univision NOW ViX Tivo Stream 4k Topic UFC Fight Pass Viaplay Viki ViX Warner Bros. Discovery Boomerang Cinemax Discovery+ Food Network Kitchen HBO Max Rooster Teeth WOW Presents Plus WWE Network YuppTV DefunctCable Adelphia Communications Corporation Alameda Power and Telecom Astound Broadband AT&T Broadband MediaOne/Continental Cablevision Tele-Communications Inc. Baja Broadband US Cable Bresnan Communications Bright House Networks Cablevision Champion Broadband Chicken Soup for the Soul Entertainment Crackle Popcornflix Cobridge Communications Community Home Entertainment FairPoint Communications Graceba Total Communications Insight Communications Jones Intercable King Videocable Knology Marcus Cable NPG Cable Paragon Cable Rapid Communications TelePrompTer/Group W Cable Time Warner Cable UA-Columbia Cablevision Windjammer Communications Satellite AlphaStar GlobeCast World TV Orby TV PrimeStar United States Satellite Broadcasting Voom HD Networks IPTV AT&T U-verse Lumen Prism TV Google Fiber TV Sky Angel Virtual Digital Cable Terrestrial USDTV MovieBeam Virtual MVPD Aereo HD HomeRun Premium TV LocalBTV Locast TVision Live TV+ PlayStation Vue Vidgo Over-the-top Anime Network CNN+ Comedy Central Now DC Universe DramaFever FilmStruck Funimation FX+ go90 MTV Hits NickHits Quibi Seeso Smithsonian Channel Plus SnagFilms vteAdditional resources on North American televisionNorth America List of local television stations in North America DTV transition North American TV mini-template Canada Canadian networks List of Canadian television networks List of Canadian television channels List of Canadian specialty channels Local Canadian TV stations List of United States stations available in Canada 2001 Vancouver TV realignment 2007 Canada broadcast TV realignment Mexico Mexican networks Local Mexican TV stations United States American networks List of American cable and satellite networks List of American over-the-air networks Local American TV stations (W) Local American TV stations (K) Spanish-language TV networks 1989 South Florida television affiliation switch 1994–1996 U.S. TV realignment 2006 U.S. TV realignment List of Canadian television stations available in the United States Middle East, Africa, Asia and Oceania Americas Europe Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Top_Up_TV&oldid=1306391020" Categories: Mass media companies established in 2004Mass media companies disestablished in 2015British companies established in 2004British companies disestablished in 2015Digital television in the United KingdomPay televisionDefunct mass media companies of the United KingdomSky GroupHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from September 2016All articles needing additional referencesUse dmy dates from April 2014Use British English from April 2014All Wikipedia articles written in British English This page was last edited on 17 August 2025, at 13:38 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Top Up TV Add languages Add topic