BBC Pacific Quay - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us Contribute HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History Toggle History subsection 1.1 Construction phase 1.2 Completion and opening 1.3 Significant events 2 Location 3 Functioning 4 Productions 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents BBC Pacific Quay 5 languages CatalàΕλληνικάPolskiPortuguês中文 Edit links ArticleTalk English ReadEditView history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions ReadEditView history General What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code Print/export Download as PDFPrintable version In other projects Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates: 55°51′29″N 4°17′27″W﻿ / ﻿55.8580°N 4.2909°W﻿ / 55.8580; -4.2909 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia TV studios in Glasgow BBC Pacific QuayBBC Pacific Quay, with the SEC Armadillo reflected in its glass facadeInteractive map of BBC Pacific QuayGeneral informationTypeTelevision and radio studiosArchitectural stylePost-modernLocationGlasgow, Pacific Quay, Pacific Drive, Glasgow, G51 1DA, ScotlandCoordinates55°51′29″N 4°17′27″W﻿ / ﻿55.8580°N 4.2909°W﻿ / 55.8580; -4.2909Current tenantsBBC One ScotlandBBC ScotlandBBC AlbaBBC Radio ScotlandBBC Radio nan GàidhealOpened20 September 2007Cost£72 millionOwnerBBCTechnical detailsFloor count6Design and constructionArchitectsDavid Chipperfield ArchitectsKeppie ArchitectsWebsitewww.bbcstreet.co.uk BBC Pacific Quay is the headquarters of BBC Scotland, serving as its main television and radio studio complex, situated at Pacific Quay, Glasgow.[1] Opened by then Prime Minister Gordon Brown on 20 September 2007, the building was designed by architect David Chipperfield to feature an all glass facade which would change throughout the day, as well as different seasons and from various vantage points from across Pacific Quay.[2] Within the building internally, a "stepped street" design rises throughout the entire length of BBC Pacific Quay. This design allows opportunities to employees to enter into break-out spaces, together with a range of different meeting areas.[3] A range of production and filming for BBC Scotland takes place at BBC Pacific Quay, including Reporting Scotland and Sportscene. History[edit] Construction phase[edit] The BBC had outgrown their old headquarters in Queen Margaret Drive, Glasgow.[4] The need to move to a new location was also in part due to changing technology, with the network having a "desire to move with the times beyond a less than fit for purpose HQ to a new building which would avail us of the latest digital technology to offer improved quality to audiences".[5] In July 1999 the BBC announced that around 800 staff would be moving to a new building that would be located at Pacific Quay.[6] The BBC held a competition to design a new building with more than seventy companies attracted. By March 2001 there was a shortlist of seven entries.[7] The £72 million project on the River Clyde in Glasgow was designed by David Chipperfield Architects, but Keppie Architects took control in late 2004.[8] It is home to the biggest TV recording space to be built in Scotland and has an area of 782 m2 (8,420 sq ft) with a new retractable stand seating for 320 audience members, although the studio can sit a maximum audience of 338 people. Completion and opening[edit] Upon its completion, BBC Pacific Quay was the "most advanced state-of-the-art broadcast centre in Europe".[9] The design of the building allowed certain services to be offered by the network for the first time, such as live music, due to the increase in space available to the network to produce additional programming. Live music segments, entitled The Quay Sessions are recorded and produced via a pop-up studio located in the reception area of the building.[10][11] It is the only BBC location[dubious – discuss] which allows opportunities for the combination of all of the BBC’s media services including TV, radio and online, linking BBC Pacific Quay with other BBC centres around Scotland.[12] The complexes Studio A is the largest television recording space in Scotland, and the second largest television studio within the British Isles.[13] Significant events[edit] During the 2014 Scottish independence referendum, Jeremy Vine broadcast from The Street within the building, using the "latest graphic gadgets". Election results for the Scottish Parliament, as well as Scottish results for UK General Elections are broadcast from BBC Pacific Quay.[14] On 1 December 2025, a fire broke out in the building. The incident began at around 06:30 GMT in a plant room on the fifth floor at roof level after an air-conditioning unit caught fire, prompting the full evacuation of staff. The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service deployed several appliances and brought the blaze under control, with crews leaving the site by late morning. No injuries were reported. The fire caused temporary disruption to broadcasting, with BBC Radio Scotland’s Breakfast programme taken off air—replaced briefly by BBC Radio 5 Live—and morning television bulletins suspended. Normal programming resumed later the same morning once the building was declared safe.[15] Location[edit] BBC Pacific Quay is located within the Pacific Quay area of Glasgow, alongside the cities historic shipping docks. Situated within an "exposed area of land", architectural firm responsible for its design, David Chipperfield Architects, said that the building "needed to assert its own sense of place and satisfy the brief that called for an enclosed yet publicly accessible building which would allow visibility of the BBC at work while maintaining tight security".[16] The studios are located adjacent to the Glasgow Science Centre, across the river from the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre and the OVO Hydro, and adjacent to the studios of commercial broadcaster STV. The new building is one of the most modern digital broadcasting facilities in the world, complete with the BBC's first HD-capable newsroom. Functioning[edit] BBC Pacific Quay illuminated at night Television studio facilities based at BBC Pacific Quay were rebranded as "Street @ BBC Scotland" in 2018.[17] There are three main television studios based at BBC Pacific Quay: Studio A is the largest television studio at the complex, with 8,417 sq ft (782 m2) of studio floor space. It can easily accommodate studio audiences of up to 320. Studio B is the small to medium-sized studio, with 2,594 sq ft (241 m2) of studio floor space. Small studio audiences of up to 100 can be accommodated in Studio B. Studio C is the smallest studio, with 1,938 sq ft (180 m2) of studio floor space. It is the home to BBC Scotland's flagship news programme Reporting Scotland, and is also used for local news, politics and current affairs programming for BBC Scotland. Because of this, it is usually not available for use by other productions. In addition, the Quay stage studio is used to host musical performances in front of a studio audience; acts have included KT Tunstall, Texas and The Fratellis.[18][19][20] The central feature of the complex is used to record interviews, host political programming and transmit webcasts such as Authors Live.[21] The complex also houses facilities needed for television productions, such as nine dressing rooms, large green rooms, audience lounge, make up, wardrobe, production offices and full studio technical support services.[22][23][24] The complex also houses six radio studios used for BBC Radio Scotland, BBC Radio nan Gàidheal and other radio stations. Productions[edit] Productions to be filmed at BBC Pacific Quay include The Weakest Link, Mrs. Brown's Boys, Impossible, Unbeatable, Get Set Galactic, The Hit List, Picture Slam, Richard Osman's House of Games, Catch Point, Sex Rated and PopMaster TV for Channel 4.[25] References[edit] ^ "Pacific Quay". www.bbc.com. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "Pacific Quay". www.bbc.com. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "Pacific Quay". www.bbc.com. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "Licence to thrill". The Herald. 30 June 2007. Retrieved 20 July 2017. ^ "Ten years at Pacific Quay for BBC Scotland". BBC. 20 September 2017. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "BBC Scotland set for riverside move". BBC News. 22 July 1999. Retrieved 20 July 2017. ^ "Architect for BBC building goes to the 'jury'". The Herald. 30 March 2001. Retrieved 20 July 2017. ^ Rose, Steve (8 October 2007). "Box clever". The Guardian. Retrieved 20 July 2017. ^ "Ten years at Pacific Quay for BBC Scotland". BBC. 20 September 2017. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "Ten years at Pacific Quay for BBC Scotland". BBC. 20 September 2017. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "BBC Radio Scotland - The Quay Sessions". BBC. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "Case Study 30 – BBC Pacific Quay". A&DS Materials Library. 13 June 2017. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "Case Study 30 – BBC Pacific Quay". A&DS Materials Library. 13 June 2017. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "Ten years at Pacific Quay for BBC Scotland". BBC. 20 September 2017. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "BBC Scotland HQ evacuated after fire breaks out". BBC. 1 December 2025. Retrieved 1 December 2025. ^ "BBC Scotland Headquarters". David Chipperfield Architects. Retrieved 1 April 2024. ^ "BBC Scotland Street". www.bbcstreet.co.uk. ^ BBC Music (16 September 2016). "KT Tunstall - Maybe It's A Good Thing (The Quay Sessions)" – via YouTube. ^ BBC (4 June 2015). "Texas - Black Eyed Boy (The Quay Sessions)" – via YouTube. ^ BBC (13 August 2015). "The Fratellis - Chelsea Dagger (The Quay Sessions)" – via YouTube. ^ "Alex T Smith". BBC Music Events. ^ "BBC - Studio A - About BBC Scotland". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 20 November 2016. ^ "BBC - Studio C - About BBC Scotland". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 13 March 2013. ^ "BBC - Studio support - About BBC Scotland". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 15 March 2013. ^ "BBC Scotland Studios". Film Bang. Retrieved 1 April 2024. External links[edit] Media related to BBC Scotland Glasgow at Wikimedia Commons Official website vteBBC ScotlandTelevision BBC One Scotland BBC Scotland BBC Alba Radio BBC Radio Scotland BBC Radio nan Gàidheal BBC Radio Orkney BBC Radio Shetland BBC Gàidhlig BBC Scotland television programmes BBC Pacific Quay Television in Scotland BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra The Comedy Unit vteTelevision in ScotlandBBC BBC One Scotland BBC Scotland ITV STV STV North STV Central STV HD ITV1 ITV Border ITV1 HD Gaelic BBC Alba Defunct Sky Scottish S2 STV2 STV Edinburgh STV Glasgow Thistle TV Edinburgh Television Channel Six Celtic TV Rangers TV TeleG BBC Two Scotland vteBBCServices Television stations programmes Radio stations local BBC Online BBC Red Button Ceefax iPlayer BBC Sounds Management Chair Samir Shah Director-General Tim Davie BBC Board BBC Charter BBC independence Departments BBC Academy Archives BBC Film BBC World Service (Timeline) Television Design & Engineering Monitoring News Pronunciation Unit Radio Sport Weather Nations andregionsEngland Birmingham Bristol East East Midlands London Manchester North East & Cumbria North West South South East South West West West Midlands Yorkshire Yorkshire & Lincolnshire Rest of UK Northern Ireland Scotland Gàidhlig Wales Commercialsubsidiaries BBC Studios Productions Natural History Unit Home Entertainment Demon Music Group BBC Studioworks BBC Worldwide History Archives Sound Archive BBC Trust Board of Governors British Broadcasting Company Coat of arms Controversies Criticism First day of TV Logo Radio Times Genome Timeline Keyproperties(full list)London Broadcasting House Lime Grove (former) Maida Vale Studios Television Centre (former) White City & Media Village Birmingham Drama Village Mailbox Birmingham Pebble Mill Studios (former) Cardiff New Broadcasting House, Cardiff Broadcasting House (former) Drama Village (Roath Lock) BBC Hoddinott Hall Other locations Broadcasting House, Belfast BBC Elstree Centre MediaCityUK, Salford Pacific Quay, Glasgow Finance Television licence history Projects Backstage BBC Micro BBC UK regional TV on satellite The Box Bitesize BritBox Dirac Domesday Freely Freesat h2g2 Local Democracy Reporting Service Redux YouView Technical Programme Catalogue Programme Identifier Other List of BBC Heads of Light Entertainment List of songs banned by the BBC Live at the BBC Category Portal vteMedia in the United KingdomUK national newspapers, magazines, and other periodicalsNewspapers(history, circulation)Broadsheet Financial Times The Daily Telegraph The Sunday Telegraph The Sunday Times Compact The i Paper The Times The Guardian The Observer Middle-market Daily Express Daily Mail The Mail on Sunday Tabloid Daily Mirror Sunday Mirror Morning Star The Sunday People Daily Star Daily Star Sunday The Sun Sunday Sport Weekend Sport Midweek Sport Online 5Pillars The Independent Magazines andother periodicals List of magazines in the United Kingdom List of magazines by circulation Radio in the UKNationalstationsBBC BBC Radio 1 BBC Radio 1Xtra BBC Radio 2 BBC Radio 3 BBC Radio 4 BBC Radio 4 Extra BBC Radio 5 Live BBC Radio 5 Sports Extra BBC Radio 6 Music BBC Asian Network BBC World Service BBC National DAB (multiplex) Independent/ commercial Absolute Radio Network BFBS Radio Capital Capital Xtra Classic FM Digital One (multiplex) Gold Greatest Hits Radio Heart Hits Radio Jazz FM Kiss Network LBC LBC News Magic Magic Classical Premier Christian Radio RNIB Connect Radio Sound Digital (multiplex) Smooth Radio talkSPORT TalkRadio Times Radio UCB UK Virgin Radio UK Radio X Regionaland localstationsBBC List of BBC Local Radio stations BBC Radio Scotland BBC Radio nan Gàidheal BBC Radio Ulster BBC Radio Foyle BBC Radio Wales BBC Radio Cymru Cymru 2 Independent/ commercial List of community radio stations List of local commercial radio stations List of semi-national / regional analogue and digital radio stations Otherstations List of hospital radio stations Pirate radio Restricted Service Licence (RSL) List of RSL stations List of student radio stations Other Broadcasting House FM broadcasting Radio Academy Radio Academy Awards Radio Independents Group RAJAR Most listened to programmes Television in the UKPrincipalchannels(list)BBC/UKTV BBC One BBC Two BBC Three BBC Four BBC News BBC Parliament BBC Alba BBC Scotland CBBC CBeebies U&Alibi U&Dave U&Drama U&Eden U&Gold U&W U&Yesterday ITV ITV1/STV/UTV ITV2 ITV3 ITV4 ITV Quiz Channel 4/S4C Channel 4 S4C E4 E4 Extra Film4 More4 4seven Paramount 5 5Star 5USA 5Select 5Action Comedy Central Comedy Central Extra MTV MTV Music MTV 80s MTV 90s Club MTV Nickelodeon Nicktoons Nick Jr. Sky UK Challenge Sky Arts Sky Atlantic Sky Cinema Sky Comedy Sky Crime Sky Documentaries Sky History Sky History 2 Sky Kids Sky Max Sky Mix Sky Nature Sky News Sky Replay Sky Sci-Fi Sky Showcase Sky Sports Box Office Sky Sports F1 Sky Sports News Sky Sports Racing Sky Sports Sky Witness Warner Bros. Discovery Animal Planet Boomerang Cartoon Network Cartoonito CNN International Discovery Channel Discovery History Discovery Science Discovery Turbo DMAX Food Network HGTV Investigation Discovery Quest Quest Red Really TLC TNT Sports Narrative Entertainment UK Limited Great! Action Great! Movies Great! Romance Great! Real Great! TV Pop Tiny Pop ServicesandplatformsCurrent Amazon Prime Video BBC iPlayer cable Channel 4 digital digital terrestrial List of channels Disney+ EE TV 5 Freely Freesat Freesat+ Freeview high-definition List of channels ITV ITVX STV Player local television Now Netflix Paramount+ Pop Player Restricted Service Licence satellite List of channels Sky Group Sky Q Sky Glass Sky Stream TalkTalk TV TVPlayer U Virgin Media FilmFlex TiVo YouView Defunct analogue analogue terrestrial BBC Store Film4oD Real Digital Sky Group Freesat from Sky On Demand Sky+ Sky+ HD TalkTalk TV Store Top Up TV Virgin Media V+ StudiosCurrent 3 Mills Studios BBC Cymru Wales New Broadcasting House BBC Elstree Centre BBC Pacific Quay The Bottle Yard Studios Broadcasting House Broadcasting House, Belfast Broadcasting House, Bristol Dock10 Elstree Studios (Shenley Road) Gas Street Studios The Leeds Studios The Maidstone Studios Mailbox Birmingham MediaCityUK Old Granada Studios Riverside Studios Roath Lock The Sharp Project Sky Campus Space Studios Manchester Television Centre, London Defunct Broadcasting House, Cardiff Dickenson Road Studios Fountain Studios The Hospital Club Lime Grove Studios Limehouse Studios The London Studios MGM-British Studios New Broadcasting House, Manchester Pebble Mill Studios Teddington Studios Television Centre, Newcastle upon Tyne Television Centre, Southampton Upper Boat Studios Other Television in Northern Ireland in Scotland in Wales Defunct channels Edinburgh International Television Festival History List of years Viewing statistics Most-watched broadcasts Companies and organisationsMajorcompanies Banijay UK Productions Bauer Media Audio UK BBC Bloomsbury Publishing BT Group Channel Four Television Corporation Daily Mail and General Trust Dentsu International Economist Group EMI Music Publishing Future plc Global Media & Entertainment Guardian Media Group Haymarket Media Group Informa ITN ITV plc National World News Broadcasting News UK Newsquest Pearson plc Press Holdings Reach plc RELX Reuters Sky STV Group Syco TalkTalk Group Paramount Networks UK & Australia Virgin Media O2 The Walt Disney Company (UK) Ltd. Warner Bros. Discovery EMEA Resources Arqiva List of largest UK book publishers Government andregulatory bodies Advertising Standards Authority BBC Board (formerly: BBC Trust Board of Governors of the BBC) British Board of Film Classification British Film Institute Culture, Media, and Sport Select Committee Department for Culture, Media and Sport Independent Press Standards Organisation Ofcom Press Recognition Panel S4C Authority Industry andtrades bodies British Academy of Film and Television Arts British Phonographic Industry Broadcasting, Entertainment, Cinematograph and Theatre Union Clearcast Digital TV Group Equity Everyone TV Federation Against Copyright Theft Independent Publishers Guild National Union of Journalists The Publishers Association Royal Television Society United Kingdom Independent Broadcasting Other BBC Academy National Film and Television School National Science and Media Museum Regional, student and community mediaRegional media Media in England Birmingham London Manchester Media in Scotland Aberdeen Dundee Glasgow Media in Wales Cardiff Student media Student television Student press Community media Islam21c Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=BBC_Pacific_Quay&oldid=1325226431" Categories: Buildings and structures in GlasgowBBC offices, studios and buildingsBritish television studios2007 establishments in ScotlandBBC ScotlandBuildings and structures completed in 2007Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlasArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from July 2015Use British English from July 2015All Wikipedia articles written in British EnglishPages using infobox mapframe without shape links in WikidataCoordinates on WikidataAll accuracy disputesArticles with disputed statements from November 2024Commons category link from WikidataPages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 1 December 2025, at 22:08 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents BBC Pacific Quay 5 languages Add topic