V+ - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us Contribute HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Technical specifications Toggle Technical specifications subsection 2.1 Scientific-Atlanta Explorer 8300DVB 2.2 Samsung SMT-H3110 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents V+ Add languages Add links ArticleTalk English ReadEditView history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions ReadEditView history General What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code Print/export Download as PDFPrintable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Set-top box for Virgin Media's Virgin TV service See also: Augmented dominant (V+) Not to be confused with V+ (voltage). This article is about the set-top box by Virgin Media and is not to be confused with Vu+. V+ (previously known as TVDrive) is a set-top box for Virgin Media's Virgin TV service, which provides personal video recording (PVR) and high definition (HD) functionality to customers who subscribe to the service. Virgin TV have taken a different approach from rival Sky's Sky+ and later Sky+ HD services, by implementing a rental scheme for the V+ Box. When Virgin TV was launched, there was an installation charge (waived under certain circumstances) and a monthly charge for all customers with a discount for XL customers. On 1 June 2007 pricing was revised, with all customers paying a one-off set-up fee and TV M and L customers paid a monthly charge, while TV XL customers had no extra charges. Various deals to lower the set-up fee have been made available to all customers in order to compete with rival Sky.[1][2][3] The V+ set-top box is technically on lease, still owned by Virgin Media, who provide technical support for it free of charge if a problem occurs for the life of a contract. Should the customer downgrade from the V+ service, the recording functions of the V+ box and access to all high definition channels and on demand content will be blocked, effectively acting as a standard V Box. As of Q1 2010, there were a total of 939,900 V+ customers, representing 25% of all Virgin TV subscribers.[4] History[edit] Telewest's TVDrive logo The V+ Box derives from Telewest's silver TVDrive, and was initially only available to Telewest cable customers. The TVDrive began roll-out on 1 December 2005 on a commercial pilot basis before a full launch in March 2006, becoming the first HD service in the UK.[5][6] Due to the merger between NTL and Telewest, the TVDrive was made available to NTL cable customers in the Teesside and Glasgow areas on 16 November 2006, in turn NTL ceased development of their MPEG-4 compatible HD PVR, the Scientific-Atlanta Explorer 8450DVB.[7][8] In January 2007, NTL:Telewest began renting the set-top box nationwide and since the licensing of the Virgin Media name, it became officially available in all areas with the new V+ branding and the colour changed from silver to black. On 24 November 2009, Virgin Media entered into a strategic partnership with TiVo.[9] Under the mutually exclusive agreement, TiVo developed a converged television and broadband interactive interface to power Virgin Media's next generation, high definition set-top boxes. The terms of the deal were not disclosed. TiVo became the exclusive provider of middleware and user interface software for Virgin Media's next generation set-top boxes. Virgin Media became the exclusive distributor of TiVo services and technology in the United Kingdom. Virgin Media first TiVo co-branded product was released in 2010.[10] From February 2012, the V+ is only carried as a replacement for faulty V+ boxes, or sometimes offered as a secondary set-top box in the home and is now being phased out. The only Virgin TV units supported nowadays are the TiVo and the V6 box, and the newest 360 and 360 Mini boxes. The V6 unit was the last model based on the TiVo technology. However, it (as well as the newest 360-based boxes) only supports a HDMI connection to a TV set (the SCART port is disabled and not supported) and it requires a valid Virgin Media broadband connection via Ethernet or Wi-Fi (unlike the original TiVo which featured a built-in data modem for interactive features). If these conditions are not met, an original TiVo must be installed and used. Technical specifications[edit] The V+ Boxes have three video tuners, allowing the user to record two programmes to the hard drive while watching a live programme which can then be paused. V+'s main competitor on the British market, the Sky+ HD box, has two tuners. As with all other digital set-top boxes from Virgin Media.[clarification needed] The set-top boxes support 720p and 1080i high definition video via HDMI and component output and is capable of upscaling SD video to HD resolutions. The copying of some programmes may be restricted by using HDCP. The set-top boxes also support Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound, which is currently broadcast on some HD channels and video on demand (VOD) content. Both set-top boxes support DVB-C transmission using MPEG-2 compression, the standard used by Virgin for both SD and HD video. Currently only two models of V+ have been released, the original Scientific-Atlanta Explorer 8300DVB and the newer Samsung SMT-H3110, which was released on 3 March 2009 on a trial basis followed by a full launch on 3 August 2009 after a 1-year delay.[11] There have been five[clarification needed] remote control models, starting with the type 7 which was replaced by the type 8 during the V+ branding exercise; both are manufactured by Philips.[12] The type 9 was released during September 2009, followed by the type 10; both are manufactured by Ruwido using their 'r series' remote controls.[13] On 22 March 2010, Ruwido announced that Virgin had gone for Ruwido's 'Unified' remote control for their new type 11 and 12: only the latter is available with the V+.[14] Scientific-Atlanta Explorer 8300DVB[edit] Front view of the Scientific-Atlanta V+ Box Scientific-Atlanta TVDrive rear panel The Explorer 8300DVB set-top box from Scientific-Atlanta, uses two 250 MIPS 32-bit RISC processors, 4 tuners (3 video, 1 data), a DOCSIS 1.x cable modem, a full graphics engine, 2 HD and SD video decoders, dual audio decoders and contains one Western Digital or Maxtor 160GB PATA hard disk, capable of storing up to 20 hours of HD Content or up to 80 hours of SD content.[15][16] For connectivity the Explorer 8300DVB box has 1 HDMI output, 1 YPbPr HD Component output, 2 Scart Outputs, 1 optical audio output, 1 dual channel analogue phono output and an RF input and output. There is also an Ethernet socket for Internet access, a powered USB port and an eSATA port which are currently disabled but may be enabled in the future for external storage. The Explorer 8300DVB has been criticised for having blurred menus when set to 1080i, inability to record radio and its slow response to changing channels.[17] Samsung SMT-H3110[edit] Front view of the Samsung V+ Box Samsung V+ Box rear panel The SMT-H3110 set-top box from Samsung Electronics,[18] has 1 HDMI output, 2 Scart Outputs and 1 optical audio output. There is also an Ethernet socket for Internet access, a powered USB port, an exhaust fan at the rear and a Western Digital 160GB SATA hard disk, capable of storing up to 20 hours of HD Content or up to 80 hours of SD content.[19][20][21] Unlike the Explorer 8300DVB, the on-screen display and subtitles are output on the VCR Scart, when set to standard definition it is impossible to watch another channel during the archiving process and there is also the ability to record radio. MPEG-4 compatibility has also been included for future use.[22] See also[edit] Virgin Media High-definition television High-definition television in the United Kingdom References[edit] ^ "Virgin Media sleighs price of V+". Virgin Media. 27 November 2007.[permanent dead link] ^ "V+ bundles". Virgin Media. Archived from the original on 29 November 2007. Retrieved 27 November 2007. ^ "We Hear You : Offers for all". Virgin Media. Archived from the original on 26 April 2009. Retrieved 25 April 2009. ^ "Virgin Media – First Quarter 2010 Results". Virgin Media. 28 April 2010.[permanent dead link] ^ "TVDrive to start high definition revolution". Telewest. 1 December 2005.[permanent dead link] ^ "Full launch for Telewest's HDTV TV Drive". Digital Spy. 10 March 2006. ^ "NTL's PVR to be MPEG-4, HD compatible". Digital Spy. 22 October 2005. ^ "Telewest TV Drive review". TechRadar. 20 December 2006. Archived from the original on 28 July 2013. Retrieved 17 January 2013. ^ "Virgin Media Selects TiVo For Next Generation TV Platform". TiVo. 24 November 2009. Archived from the original on 28 November 2009. Retrieved 27 October 2011. ^ "Virgin Media's TiVo platform to go live". Digital Spy. 1 December 2010. ^ "New V+ box likely in 'second half of 2008'". Digital Spy. 29 February 2008. ^ "Virgin Media Remote Control Codes". Virgin Media. Archived from the original on 27 January 2010. Retrieved 13 November 2009. ^ "r77". ruwido. Archived from the original on 25 November 2009. Retrieved 13 November 2009. ^ "Ruwido wins Virgin Media biz". Rapid TV News. 22 March 2010.[permanent dead link] ^ "Scientific Atlanta 8300DVB datasheet" (PDF). Scientific-Atlanta. Archived from the original (PDF) on 29 September 2007. Retrieved 16 March 2009. ^ "Scientific Atlanta's Explorer 8300DVB PVR Set-Top" (PDF). Cisco Systems. Retrieved 6 October 2010. ^ "Telewest TVdrive". Stuff.tv. 18 September 2006. Archived from the original on 6 March 2010. Retrieved 13 November 2009. ^ "SMT-H3110". SAMSUNG Telecommunication Systems. Retrieved 4 August 2010. ^ "V+ STB Comparison Document – SA8300 & Samsung 3110". Paul Carter. 12 September 2008. ^ "Details emerge on new V+ cable box". Digital Spy. 16 January 2009. ^ "Virgin Media Samsung V+". What Hi-Fi?. Retrieved 5 June 2009. ^ "Virgin Media's new V+ box will be MPEG4". Tech Radar. 16 January 2009. Archived from the original on 21 January 2009. Retrieved 22 January 2009. External links[edit] Virgin Media homepage V+ HD Box V+ manual V+ FAQ vteVirgin Media O2Products and services O2 UK Virgin Media giffgaff Tesco Mobile (50%) Virgin Media Business Virgin TV O2 Store O2 Money Former products and services Virgin.net Virgin Mobile V+ O2 wireless box O2 Joggler Former subsidiaries Virgin Media Television Challenge Living Bravo Bravo 2 Challenge Jackpot EBN Ftn Real Lives SceneOne Setanta Sports News Living Loves The Children's Channel Trouble Virgin1 Bid Shopping Smallworld Cable UKTV PredecessorsVirgin Media NTL (1992–2006) Telewest (1984–2006) Liberty Global (2013–2021) O2 BT Group (1985–2002) Securicor (1985–1999; 40%) O2 plc (2002–2006) Telefónica (2006–2021) Category Commons vteMedia in the United KingdomUK national newspapers, magazines, and other periodicalsNewspapers(history, circulation)Broadsheet Financial Times The Daily Telegraph The Sunday Telegraph The Sunday Times Compact The i Paper The Times The Guardian The Observer Middle-market Daily Express Daily Mail The Mail on Sunday Tabloid Daily Mirror Sunday Mirror Morning Star The Sunday People Daily Star Daily Star Sunday The Sun Sunday Sport Weekend Sport Midweek Sport Online 5Pillars The Independent Magazines andother periodicals List of magazines in the United Kingdom List of magazines by circulation Radio in the UKNationalstationsBBC BBC Radio 1 BBC Radio 1Xtra BBC Radio 2 BBC Radio 3 BBC Radio 4 BBC Radio 4 Extra BBC Radio 5 Live BBC Radio 5 Sports Extra BBC Radio 6 Music BBC Asian Network BBC World Service BBC National DAB (multiplex) Independent/ commercial Absolute Radio Network BFBS Radio Capital Capital Xtra Classic FM Digital One (multiplex) Gold Greatest Hits Radio Heart Hits Radio Jazz FM Kiss Network LBC LBC News Magic Magic Classical Premier Christian Radio RNIB Connect Radio Sound Digital (multiplex) Smooth Radio talkSPORT TalkRadio Times Radio UCB UK Virgin Radio UK Radio X Regionaland localstationsBBC List of BBC Local Radio stations BBC Radio Scotland BBC Radio nan Gàidheal BBC Radio Ulster BBC Radio Foyle BBC Radio Wales BBC Radio Cymru Cymru 2 Independent/ commercial List of community radio stations List of local commercial radio stations List of semi-national / regional analogue and digital radio stations Otherstations List of hospital radio stations Pirate radio Restricted Service Licence (RSL) List of RSL stations List of student radio stations Other Broadcasting House FM broadcasting Radio Academy Radio Academy Awards Radio Independents Group RAJAR Most listened to programmes Television in the UKPrincipalchannels(list)BBC/UKTV BBC One BBC Two BBC Three BBC Four BBC News BBC Parliament BBC Alba BBC Scotland CBBC CBeebies U&Alibi U&Dave U&Drama U&Eden U&Gold U&W U&Yesterday ITV ITV1/STV/UTV ITV2 ITV3 ITV4 ITV Quiz Channel 4/S4C Channel 4 S4C E4 E4 Extra Film4 More4 4seven Paramount 5 5Star 5USA 5Select 5Action Comedy Central Comedy Central Extra MTV MTV Music MTV 80s MTV 90s Club MTV Nickelodeon Nicktoons Nick Jr. Sky UK Challenge Sky Arts Sky Atlantic Sky Cinema Sky Comedy Sky Crime Sky Documentaries Sky History Sky History 2 Sky Kids Sky Max Sky Mix Sky Nature Sky News Sky Replay Sky Sci-Fi Sky Showcase Sky Sports Box Office Sky Sports F1 Sky Sports News Sky Sports Racing Sky Sports Sky Witness Warner Bros. Discovery Animal Planet Boomerang Cartoon Network Cartoonito CNN International Discovery Channel Discovery History Discovery Science Discovery Turbo DMAX Food Network HGTV Investigation Discovery Quest Quest Red Really TLC TNT Sports Narrative Entertainment UK Limited Great! Action Great! Movies Great! Romance Great! Real Great! TV Pop Tiny Pop ServicesandplatformsCurrent Amazon Prime Video BBC iPlayer cable Channel 4 digital digital terrestrial List of channels Disney+ EE TV 5 Freely Freesat Freesat+ Freeview high-definition List of channels ITV ITVX STV Player local television Now Netflix Paramount+ Pop Player Restricted Service Licence satellite List of channels Sky Group Sky Q Sky Glass Sky Stream TalkTalk TV TVPlayer U Virgin Media FilmFlex TiVo YouView Defunct analogue analogue terrestrial BBC Store Film4oD Real Digital Sky Group Freesat from Sky On Demand Sky+ Sky+ HD TalkTalk TV Store Top Up TV Virgin Media V+ StudiosCurrent 3 Mills Studios BBC Cymru Wales New Broadcasting House BBC Elstree Centre BBC Pacific Quay The Bottle Yard Studios Broadcasting House Broadcasting House, Belfast Broadcasting House, Bristol Dock10 Elstree Studios (Shenley Road) Gas Street Studios The Leeds Studios The Maidstone Studios Mailbox Birmingham MediaCityUK Old Granada Studios Riverside Studios Roath Lock The Sharp Project Sky Campus Space Studios Manchester Television Centre, London Defunct Broadcasting House, Cardiff Dickenson Road Studios Fountain Studios The Hospital Club Lime Grove Studios Limehouse Studios The London Studios MGM-British Studios New Broadcasting House, Manchester Pebble Mill Studios Teddington Studios Television Centre, Newcastle upon Tyne Television Centre, Southampton Upper Boat Studios Other Television in Northern Ireland in Scotland in Wales Defunct channels Edinburgh International Television Festival History List of years Viewing statistics Most-watched broadcasts Companies and organisationsMajorcompanies Banijay UK Productions Bauer Media Audio UK BBC Bloomsbury Publishing BT Group Channel Four Television Corporation Daily Mail and General Trust Dentsu International Economist Group EMI Music Publishing Future plc Global Media & Entertainment Guardian Media Group Haymarket Media Group Informa ITN ITV plc National World News Broadcasting News UK Newsquest Pearson plc Press Holdings Reach plc RELX Reuters Sky STV Group Syco TalkTalk Group Paramount Networks UK & Australia Virgin Media O2 The Walt Disney Company (UK) Ltd. Warner Bros. Discovery EMEA Resources Arqiva List of largest UK book publishers Government andregulatory bodies Advertising Standards Authority BBC Board (formerly: BBC Trust Board of Governors of the BBC) British Board of Film Classification British Film Institute Culture, Media, and Sport Select Committee Department for Culture, Media and Sport Independent Press Standards Organisation Ofcom Press Recognition Panel S4C Authority Industry andtrades bodies British Academy of Film and Television Arts British Phonographic Industry Broadcasting, Entertainment, Cinematograph and Theatre Union Clearcast Digital TV Group Equity Everyone TV Federation Against Copyright Theft Independent Publishers Guild National Union of Journalists The Publishers Association Royal Television Society United Kingdom Independent Broadcasting Other BBC Academy National Film and Television School National Science and Media Museum Regional, student and community mediaRegional media Media in England Birmingham London Manchester Media in Scotland Aberdeen Dundee Glasgow Media in Wales Cardiff Student media Student television Student press Community media Islam21c Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=V%2B&oldid=1311643841" Categories: Digital video recordersHigh-definition televisionSet-top boxVirgin MediaHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2019Articles with permanently dead external linksArticles with dead external links from July 2018Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from September 2019Wikipedia articles needing clarification from January 2018 This page was last edited on 16 September 2025, at 05:51 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents V+ Add languages Add topic