The Maidstone Studios - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us Contribute HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History Toggle History subsection 1.1 ITV 1.2 Independent ownership 2 Studio facilities 3 Productions Toggle Productions subsection 3.1 Other uses 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents The Maidstone Studios Add languages Add links ArticleTalk English ReadEditView history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions ReadEditView history General What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code Print/export Download as PDFPrintable version In other projects Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates: 51°16′48″N 0°33′00″E﻿ / ﻿51.280°N 0.5499°E﻿ / 51.280; 0.5499 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Television studio complex in Kent, England The Maidstone StudiosThe current Maidstone StudiosInteractive map of The Maidstone StudiosFormer namesTVS Television CentreGeneral informationStatusOpenTypeTelevision studiosLocationVinters Business Park, New Cut Road, Maidstone, Kent, ME14 5NZ, United KingdomCoordinates51°16′48″N 0°33′00″E﻿ / ﻿51.280°N 0.5499°E﻿ / 51.280; 0.5499OpeningAutumn 1982[1]OwnerMaidstone Studios Limited (2002—present)Other informationParking350WebsiteThe Maidstone Studios The Maidstone Studios, formerly TVS Television Centre, is the largest independent television studio complex in the United Kingdom, and is based at Vinters Business Park in Maidstone, Kent, England. It has been home to a varied selection of independent British television programming including Later... with Jools Holland, Deal or No Deal, Take Me Out, Catchphrase, as well as popular children's shows such as Art Attack and Let's Play for CBeebies. The studios has also hosted film productions including Netflix short film The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar. Other recent credits also include: Blankety Blank, Family Fortunes and Supermarket Sweep. History[edit] ITV[edit] The site was originally chosen by the now defunct ITV company Southern Television in 1979 for a proposed new studio facility should it win the contract from the Independent Broadcasting Authority (the UK television regulator at the time), for the new dual South and South-east of England region in 1981. As Southern Television lost its franchise, it sold the site to the successful applicant Television South (TVS) at a premium. It was part of the agreement with the IBA that TVS needed to provide a separate studio facility for the South East region. The complex first opened in August 1982, providing broadcasting and production output for TVS. The site was also used as a regional office and a newsgathering hub, broadcasting the South East daily edition of Coast to Coast. TVS continued to use Maidstone until the end of their franchise, which it lost in 1991. Independent ownership[edit] When TVS lost its ITV franchise, it retained the Maidstone facility with a view to becoming an independent production company. The new south and south east ITV contractor, Meridian, initially continued to rent space in the building as a production centre for the south east edition of Meridian Tonight, before moving to its own centre at nearby New Hythe between 1994 and 2004. The Meridian newsgathering operation returned to Maidstone Studios in 2004, though the studio for the programme moved to Meridian's new base at Whiteley in Hampshire. TVS, including the Maidstone Studios, was quickly bought by International Family Entertainment Inc. and the studios were used as an independent production facility. IFE subsequently launched a UK version of The Family Channel based at Maidstone, using some elements of the TVS programme archive. Flextech was a partner in the venture, taking a 39% stake in the business.[2] In 1996, the studio complex was sold by International Family Entertainment Inc. to Flextech when it acquired the remaining 61% of the UK Family Channel business. During 2002 the new owner of Flextech, Telewest Communications, overhauled the structure of the operations which resulted in the disposal of the studios. The studios were bought in 2002 by a local consortium of businessmen under the name Dovedale Associates for £4.25 million, headed by ex-BBC producer Geoff Miles.[3] In 2005 a £2 million refurbishment programme took place, as part of the new owner's plans for the complex. A new Studio 5 (now known as Studio 1) was opened, which covers 12,000 square feet (1,100 m2) able to accommodate a 2,000-strong audience; it is now the complex's flagship HD studio.[4] Between April 2013 and December 2018 was the home of BBC2's Later... with Jools Holland.[5] From 2006 to 2012 a company called TVS Television Productions Ltd was based in offices at The Maidstone Studios. The name Television South Ltd, TVS and the colour logo device had been re-registered to lighting cameraman Keith Jacobsen, who traded as an independent production company with no links to the original. The new TVS ceased trading on 9 March 2012, but as of May 2017 the logo and name are used by another independent production company.[6] The area including car parks and outbuildings to the east of the studio premises were bought by Hillreed Homes. Planning permission was granted in 2014 for 77 dwellings[7] and work to redevelop the site started in 2017. Vehicular access to the studios now passes through the housing estate. Studio facilities[edit] Maidstone Studio 1 is the largest on site at 12,000 sq ft As of June 2023, The Maidstone Studios operates three studios and a backlot used for outdoor productions and audience holding space. Studio 1 – 12,000 square feet (1,100 square metres) – large/huge sets Studio 2 – 6,000 square feet (560 square metres) – medium/large size sets Studio 3 – 800 square feet (74 square metres) – small size sets Studio 1 can handle 2,400 standing, 960 seated; Studio 2 can handle 360 seated. Whilst Studio 3 cannot accommodate a seated audience, there is room for a small standing audience. The studios have large production galleries and can operate in 4K or HD. Studio 1 also includes two large scene dock doors to allow easy access for people, scenery and vehicles. Access to Studio 2 is via the studio's scene dock area. Studio 3 is used for small productions and green screen projects. The studios offer multiple camera solutions including Sony and Grass Valley, multi-functional productions spaces including edit suites, sound & Foley suite, 35 production spaces and an American Diner which is available as a filming location or crew catering space. On the Maidstone Studios premises is a data centre and office space available for hire. Productions[edit] 1 vs. 100 – Endemol for BBC Art Attack – TVS, later Media Merchants and STV Productions, for ITV Bang on the Money – ITV The Basil Brush Show – The Foundation for BBC The Biggest Loser (2012 final) - Shine Limited for ITV Blankety Blank – Thames for ITV Blind Date - Channel 5 Cape Wrath – Ecosse Films for Channel 4 Catchphrase - ITV Coalition (film) (2015) – Channel 4 Dead Line - a 2018 Halloween special of Inside No. 9 - BBC Deal or No Deal – Challenge - Remarkable Entertainment for ITV Defectors – Challenge Don't Stop Believing – Shine TV/GroupM for Channel 5 The Door – ITV The Genius Game – ITV Duel – ITV Family Fortunes – Thames for ITV FIFA eNations Cup – FIFA / Sky Sports Finders Keepers – World Wide International Television and TVS, later STV Productions, for ITV Fort Boyard: Ultimate Challenge – The Foundation for ITV and Disney XD (filmed on location in France) Fraggle Rock (UK inserts for seasons 3 and 4) – ITV and The Jim Henson Company Got to Dance – Sky One Guesstimation – Initial for BBC Hetty Feather – CBBC HOW – ITV / CITV I Can See Your Voice - BBC One It's a Mystery – Media Merchants and Meridian and ITV Jeopardy! - TVS for ITV Jo Brand's Great Wall of Comedy – Gold Later... with Jools Holland (2013–2018) – BBC Two[5] Let's Play – CBeebies Ministry of Mayhem – ITV Productions/The Foundation for ITV The Mint – ITV Mister Maker – The Foundation for CBeebies Motormouth - ITV No. 73 (Series 3-8 and 7T3) - ITV Prove It! – STV Productions/GeronimoTV for ITV The Royals – E! Scratch 'n' Sniff's Den of Doom (2007) - CITV Sort Your Life Out - BBC The Split – BBC Sport Relief's Top Dog – BBC Two Supermarket Sweep – Thames for ITV Take Me Out – Talkback Thames for ITV[8] This Time with Alan Partridge - Baby Cow Productions for BBC Trisha Goddard (2005–2010) – Townhouse TV for Channel 5 Ultimate Brain – CBBC Was It Something I Said? – Channel 4 What's Up Doc? – TVS, later Scottish Television, for ITV The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar (2023) - released on Netflix WOW! – Media Merchants and ITV Meridian, for ITV ZZZap! – Media Merchants and ITV Meridian, for ITV Other uses[edit] Between 1998 and 2007, Radio Caroline broadcast from the complex. In 2010 Maidstone Studios was used for an anti-speeding TV advert, airing on ITV between 15 January and mid-February.[9] Some of the old office space and the 2,000 square feet (190 m2) former Studio 1 have been converted into a data centre offering rack space to local, national and international businesses. Since 2010, the University for the Creative Arts has taught television production within the office space and studio space.[10] References[edit] ^ "Our Heritage | Maidstone Television Studios". maidstonestudios.com. ^ "UK media group Flextech. (invests in UK Family Channel) (Brief Article)". 7 June 1993. Archived from the original on 26 October 2012. ^ "Investor group buys out Maidstone". broadcastnow.co.uk. ^ "Maidstone Studios wins Trisha series". broadcastnow.co.uk. ^ a b "Jools Holland moves show to Maidstone". kentonline.co.uk. Retrieved 22 April 2013. ^ "TVS Television - The Little Station with Big Ideas - based in East Sussex". tvstelevision.co.uk. 11 May 2017. ^ "14/500290/FULL - Demolition of a number of disused temporary structures associated with Maidstone Studios and erection of 77 dwellings together with access, parking, garaging, landscaping and ancillary works on land to east of Maidstone Studios - The Maidstone Studios Vinters Business Park New Cut Road Maidstone Kent ME14 5NZ". pa.midkent.gov.uk. ^ Kent Film Office. "Kent Film Office Take Me Out Film Focus". ^ http://www.kentnews.co.uk/kent-news/Grieving-father-makes-anti__speeding-TV-advert-newsinkent31555.aspx?news=local [dead link] ^ "Maidstone Studio". External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Maidstone Studios. The Maidstone Studios Website TV Ark's TVS Continuity Page (Contains promotion footage for Vinters Park's opening in 1982) The Custodian Data Centre Website vteMedia in the United KingdomUK national newspapers, magazines, and other periodicalsNewspapers(history, circulation)Broadsheet Financial Times The Daily Telegraph The Sunday Telegraph The Sunday Times Compact The i Paper The Times The Guardian The Observer Middle-market Daily Express Daily Mail The Mail on Sunday Tabloid Daily Mirror Sunday Mirror Morning Star The Sunday People Daily Star Daily Star Sunday The Sun Sunday Sport Weekend Sport Midweek Sport Online 5Pillars The Independent Magazines andother periodicals List of magazines in the United Kingdom List of magazines by circulation Radio in the UKNationalstationsBBC BBC Radio 1 BBC Radio 1Xtra BBC Radio 2 BBC Radio 3 BBC Radio 4 BBC Radio 4 Extra BBC Radio 5 Live BBC Radio 5 Sports Extra BBC Radio 6 Music BBC Asian Network BBC World Service BBC National DAB (multiplex) Independent/ commercial Absolute Radio Network BFBS Radio Capital Capital Xtra Classic FM Digital One (multiplex) Gold Greatest Hits Radio Heart Hits Radio Jazz FM Kiss Network LBC LBC News Magic Magic Classical Premier Christian Radio RNIB Connect Radio Sound Digital (multiplex) Smooth Radio talkSPORT TalkRadio Times Radio UCB UK Virgin Radio UK Radio X Regionaland localstationsBBC List of BBC Local Radio stations BBC Radio Scotland BBC Radio nan Gàidheal BBC Radio Ulster BBC Radio Foyle BBC Radio Wales BBC Radio Cymru Cymru 2 Independent/ commercial List of community radio stations List of local commercial radio stations List of semi-national / regional analogue and digital radio stations Otherstations List of hospital radio stations Pirate radio Restricted Service Licence (RSL) List of RSL stations List of student radio stations Other Broadcasting House FM broadcasting Radio Academy Radio Academy Awards Radio Independents Group RAJAR Most listened to programmes Television in the UKPrincipalchannels(list)BBC/UKTV BBC One BBC Two BBC Three BBC Four BBC News BBC Parliament BBC Alba BBC Scotland CBBC CBeebies U&Alibi U&Dave U&Drama U&Eden U&Gold U&W U&Yesterday ITV ITV1/STV/UTV ITV2 ITV3 ITV4 ITV Quiz Channel 4/S4C Channel 4 S4C E4 E4 Extra Film4 More4 4seven Paramount 5 5Star 5USA 5Select 5Action Comedy Central Comedy Central Extra MTV MTV Music MTV 80s MTV 90s Club MTV Nickelodeon Nicktoons Nick Jr. Sky UK Challenge Sky Arts Sky Atlantic Sky Cinema Sky Comedy Sky Crime Sky Documentaries Sky History Sky History 2 Sky Kids Sky Max Sky Mix Sky Nature Sky News Sky Replay Sky Sci-Fi Sky Showcase Sky Sports Box Office Sky Sports F1 Sky Sports News Sky Sports Racing Sky Sports Sky Witness Warner Bros. Discovery Animal Planet Boomerang Cartoon Network Cartoonito CNN International Discovery Channel Discovery History Discovery Science Discovery Turbo DMAX Food Network HGTV Investigation Discovery Quest Quest Red Really TLC TNT Sports Narrative Entertainment UK Limited Great! Action Great! Movies Great! Romance Great! Real Great! TV Pop Tiny Pop ServicesandplatformsCurrent Amazon Prime Video BBC iPlayer cable Channel 4 digital digital terrestrial List of channels Disney+ EE TV 5 Freely Freesat Freesat+ Freeview high-definition List of channels ITV ITVX STV Player local television Now Netflix Paramount+ Pop Player Restricted Service Licence satellite List of channels Sky Group Sky Q Sky Glass Sky Stream TalkTalk TV TVPlayer U Virgin Media FilmFlex TiVo YouView Defunct analogue analogue terrestrial BBC Store Film4oD Real Digital Sky Group Freesat from Sky On Demand Sky+ Sky+ HD TalkTalk TV Store Top Up TV Virgin Media V+ StudiosCurrent 3 Mills Studios BBC Cymru Wales New Broadcasting House BBC Elstree Centre BBC Pacific Quay The Bottle Yard Studios Broadcasting House Broadcasting House, Belfast Broadcasting House, Bristol Dock10 Elstree Studios (Shenley Road) Gas Street Studios The Leeds Studios The Maidstone Studios Mailbox Birmingham MediaCityUK Old Granada Studios Riverside Studios Roath Lock The Sharp Project Sky Campus Space Studios Manchester Television Centre, London Defunct Broadcasting House, Cardiff Dickenson Road Studios Fountain Studios The Hospital Club Lime Grove Studios Limehouse Studios The London Studios MGM-British Studios New Broadcasting House, Manchester Pebble Mill Studios Teddington Studios Television Centre, Newcastle upon Tyne Television Centre, Southampton Upper Boat Studios Other Television in Northern Ireland in Scotland in Wales Defunct channels Edinburgh International Television Festival History List of years Viewing statistics Most-watched broadcasts Companies and organisationsMajorcompanies Banijay UK Productions Bauer Media Audio UK BBC Bloomsbury Publishing BT Group Channel Four Television Corporation Daily Mail and General Trust Dentsu International Economist Group EMI Music Publishing Future plc Global Media & Entertainment Guardian Media Group Haymarket Media Group Informa ITN ITV plc National World News Broadcasting News UK Newsquest Pearson plc Press Holdings Reach plc RELX Reuters Sky STV Group Syco TalkTalk Group Paramount Networks UK & Australia Virgin Media O2 The Walt Disney Company (UK) Ltd. Warner Bros. Discovery EMEA Resources Arqiva List of largest UK book publishers Government andregulatory bodies Advertising Standards Authority BBC Board (formerly: BBC Trust Board of Governors of the BBC) British Board of Film Classification British Film Institute Culture, Media, and Sport Select Committee Department for Culture, Media and Sport Independent Press Standards Organisation Ofcom Press Recognition Panel S4C Authority Industry andtrades bodies British Academy of Film and Television Arts British Phonographic Industry Broadcasting, Entertainment, Cinematograph and Theatre Union Clearcast Digital TV Group Equity Everyone TV Federation Against Copyright Theft Independent Publishers Guild National Union of Journalists The Publishers Association Royal Television Society United Kingdom Independent Broadcasting Other BBC Academy National Film and Television School National Science and Media Museum Regional, student and community mediaRegional media Media in England Birmingham London Manchester Media in Scotland Aberdeen Dundee Glasgow Media in Wales Cardiff Student media Student television Student press Community media Islam21c Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Maidstone_Studios&oldid=1322617543" Categories: Television studios in EnglandITV offices, studios and buildingsMass media in KentBuildings and structures in MaidstoneBoxleyHidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlasAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from February 2022Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse British English from October 2013All Wikipedia articles written in British EnglishUse dmy dates from January 2021Pages using infobox mapframe without shape links in WikidataCoordinates on WikidataCommons category link is on WikidataPages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 17 November 2025, at 05:32 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents The Maidstone Studios Add languages Add topic