Metalworking - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us Contribute HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Prehistory 2 History 3 General processes 4 Casting 5 Forming processes Toggle Forming processes subsection 5.1 Bulk forming processes 5.2 Sheet (and tube) forming processes 6 Cutting processes Toggle Cutting processes subsection 6.1 Health effects 6.2 Milling 6.3 Turning 6.4 Threading 6.5 Grinding 6.6 Filing 6.7 Other 7 Joining processes Toggle Joining processes subsection 7.1 Welding 7.2 Brazing 7.3 Soldering 7.4 Riveting 7.5 Mechanical fixings 8 Associated processes Toggle Associated processes subsection 8.1 Heat treatment 8.2 Plating 8.3 Thermal spraying 9 See also 10 References 11 External links Toggle the table of contents Metalworking 42 languages AfrikaansالعربيةAsturianuAzərbaycanca閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gíБеларускаяБългарскиCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسی한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתLatviešuМакедонскиNederlands日本語PolskiPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaతెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việt粵語中文 Edit links ArticleTalk English ReadEditView history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions ReadEditView history General What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code Print/export Download as PDFPrintable version In other projects Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Process of making items from metal For metal assembly, see Metal fabrication. A fireman turning a bar of metal on a lathe on the USS Harry S. Truman in 2004 Metalworking is the process of shaping and reshaping metals in order to create useful objects, parts, assemblies, and large scale structures. As a term, it covers a wide and diverse range of processes, skills, and tools for producing objects on every scale: from huge ships, buildings, and bridges, down to precise engine parts and delicate jewellery. The historical roots of metalworking predate recorded history; its use spans cultures, civilizations and millennia. It has evolved from shaping soft, native metals like gold with simple hand tools, through the smelting of ores and hot forging of harder metals like iron, up to and including highly technical modern processes such as machining and welding. It has been used as an industry, a driver of trade, individual hobbies, and in the creation of art;[1] it can be regarded as both a science and a craft. Modern metalworking processes, though diverse and specialized, can be categorized into one of three broad areas known as forming, cutting, or joining processes. Modern metalworking workshops, typically known as machine shops, hold a wide variety of specialized or general-use machine tools capable of creating highly precise, useful products. Many simpler metalworking techniques, such as blacksmithing, are no longer economically competitive on a large scale in developed countries; some of them are still in use in less developed countries, for artisanal or hobby work, or for historical reenactment. Prehistory[edit] The oldest archaeological evidence of copper mining and working was the discovery of a copper pendant in northern Iraq from 8,700 BCE.[2] The earliest substantiated and dated evidence of metalworking in the Americas was the processing of copper in Wisconsin, near Lake Michigan. Copper was hammered until it became brittle, then heated so it could be worked further. In America, this technology is dated to about 4000–5000 BCE.[3] The oldest gold artifacts in the world come from the Bulgarian Varna Necropolis and date from 4450 BCE. Not all metal required fire to obtain it or work it. Isaac Asimov speculated that gold was the "first metal".[4] His reasoning being, that, by its chemistry, it is found in nature as nuggets of pure gold. In other words, gold, as rare as it is, is sometimes found in nature as a native metal. Some metals can also be found in meteors. Almost all other metals are found in ores, a mineral-bearing rock, that require heat or some other process to liberate the metal. Another feature of gold is that it is workable as it is found, meaning that no technology beyond a stone hammer and anvil is needed to work the metal. This is a result of gold's properties of malleability and ductility. The earliest tools were stone, bone, wood, and sinew, all of which sufficed to work gold. At some unknown time, the process of liberating metals from rock by heat became known, and rocks rich in copper, tin, and lead came into demand. These ores were mined wherever they were recognized. Remnants of such ancient mines have been found all over Southwestern Asia.[5] Metalworking was being carried out by the South Asian inhabitants of Mehrgarh between 7000 and 3300 BCE.[6] The end of the beginning of metalworking occurs sometime around 6000 BCE when copper smelting became common in Southwestern Asia. Ancient civilisations knew of seven metals. Here they are arranged in order of their oxidation potential (in volts): Iron +0.44 V, Tin +0.14 V Lead +0.13 V Copper −0.34 V Mercury −0.79 V Silver −0.80 V Gold −1.50 V. The oxidation potential is important because it is one indicator of how tightly bound to the ore the metal is likely to be. As can be seen, iron is significantly higher than the other six metals while gold is dramatically lower than the six above it. Gold's low oxidation is one of the main reasons that gold is found in nuggets. These nuggets are relatively pure gold and are workable as they are found. Copper ore, being relatively abundant, and tin ore became the next important substances in the story of metalworking. Using heat to smelt copper from ore, a great deal of copper was produced. It was used for both jewelry and simple tools. However, copper by itself was too soft for tools requiring edges and stiffness. At some point tin was added into the molten copper and bronze was developed thereby. Bronze is an alloy of copper and tin. Bronze was an important advance because it had the edge-durability and stiffness that pure copper lacked. Until the advent of iron, bronze was the most advanced metal for tools and weapons in common use (see Bronze Age for more detail). Outside Southwestern Asia, these same advances and materials were being discovered and used around the world. People in China and Great Britain began using bronze with little time being devoted to copper. Japanese began the use of bronze and iron almost simultaneously. In the Americas it was different. Although the peoples of the Americas knew of metals, it was not until the European colonisation that metalworking for tools and weapons became common. Jewelry and art were the principal uses of metals in the Americas prior to European influence. About 2700 BCE, production of bronze was common in locales where the necessary materials could be assembled for smelting, heating, and working the metal.[7] Iron was beginning to be smelted and began its emergence as an important metal for tools and weapons. The period that followed became known as the Iron Age.[8] History[edit] See also: Ferrous metallurgy Le Marteleur by Constantin Meunier (1886) A turret-lathe operator machining parts for transport planes at the Consolidated Aircraft Corporation plant, Fort Worth, Texas, USA, in the 1940s By the historical periods of the Pharaohs in Egypt, the Vedic kings in India, the Tribes of Israel, and the Maya civilization in North America, among other ancient populations, humans had begun to attach value to precious metals over and above any available functional metal tools and weapons.[9][10] Gold or silver trinkets became luxury goods inantiquity.[11] In some cases rules for ownership, distribution, and trade were created, enforced, and agreed upon by various peoples.[12] By the above periods metalworkers were very skilled at creating objects of adornment, religious artifacts, and trade instruments of precious metals (non-ferrous), as well as weaponry (usually of ferrous metals and/or alloys).[13] Sophisticated techniques were practiced by artisans, blacksmiths, atharvavedic practitioners, alchemists, and other categories of metalworkers around the globe. For example, the granulation technique occurs in numerous ancient cultures before the historic record shows people traveled to far regions to share this process.[14] Metalsmiths today still use this and many other ancient techniques. Over time, metal objects became more common and ever more complex. The need to further acquire and work metals grew in importance. Skills related to extracting metal ores from the earth began to evolve, and metalsmiths became more knowledgeable. Metalsmiths became important members of society.[15] Fates and economies of entire civilizations were greatly affected by the availability of metals and metalsmiths.[16] The metalworker depends on the extraction of precious metals to make jewelry, build more efficient electronics, and for industrial and technological applications from construction to shipping containers to rail, and air transport. Without metals, goods and services would cease to move around the globe on the scale we know today. General processes[edit] A combination square used for transferring designs A caliper is used to precisely measure a short length. Metalworking generally is divided into three categories: forming, cutting, and joining. Most metal cutting is done by high speed steel tools or carbide tools.[17] Each of these categories contains various processes. Prior to most operations, the metal must be marked out and/or measured, depending on the desired finished product. Marking out (also known as layout) is the process of transferring a design or pattern to a workpiece and is the first step in the handcraft of metalworking. It is performed in many industries or hobbies, although in industry, the repetition eliminates the need to mark out every individual piece. In the metal trades area, marking out consists of transferring the engineer's plan to the workpiece in preparation for the next step, machining or manufacture. Calipers are hand tools designed to precisely measure the distance between two points. Most calipers have two sets of flat, parallel edges used for inner or outer diameter measurements. These calipers can be accurate to within one-thousandth of an inch (25.4 μm). Different types of calipers have different mechanisms for displaying the distance measured. Where larger objects need to be measured with less precision, a tape measure is often used. Compatibility chart of materials versus processes[18] Material Process Iron Steel Aluminium Copper Magnesium Nickel Refractory metals Titanium Zinc Brass Bronze Sand casting X X X X X X 0 0 X Permanent mold casting X 0 X 0 X 0 0 0 X Die casting X 0 X X Investment casting X X X 0 0 0 X Ablation casting X X X 0 0 Open-die forging 0 X X X 0 0 0 Closed-die forging X 0 0 0 0 0 0 Extrusion 0 X X X 0 0 0 Cold heading X X X 0 Stamping & deep drawing X X X 0 X 0 0 Screw machine 0 X X X 0 X 0 0 0 X X Powder metallurgy X X 0 X 0 X 0 Key: X = Routinely performed, 0 = Performed with difficulty, caution, or some sacrifice, blank = Not recommended Casting[edit] A sand casting mold Main article: Metal casting Casting achieves a specific form by pouring molten metal into a mold and allowing it to cool, with no mechanical force. Forms of casting include: Investment casting (called lost wax casting in art) Centrifugal casting Die casting Sand casting Shell casting Spin casting Forming processes[edit] These forming processes modify metal or workpiece by deforming the object, that is, without removing any material.[19] Forming is done with a system of mechanical forces and, especially for bulk metal forming, with heat. Bulk forming processes[edit] A red-hot metal workpiece is inserted into a forging press. Plastic deformation involves using heat or pressure to make a workpiece more conductive to mechanical force. Historically, this and casting were done by blacksmiths, though today the process has been industrialized. In bulk metal forming, the workpiece is generally heated up. Cold sizing Extrusion Drawing Forging Powder metallurgy Friction drilling Rolling Burnishing Sheet (and tube) forming processes[edit] See also: Sheet metal These types of forming process involve the application of mechanical force at room temperature. However, some recent developments involve the heating of dies and/or parts. Advancements in automated metalworking technology have made progressive die stamping possible which is a method that can encompass punching, coining, bending and several other ways below that modify metal at less cost while resulting in less scrap.[20] Bending Coining Decambering Deep drawing (DD) Foldforming[21] Hydroforming (HF) Hot metal gas forming Hot press hardening[22] Incremental forming (IF) Spinning, Shear forming or Flowforming A metal spun brass vase Planishing Raising Roll forming Roll bending Repoussé and chasing Rubber pad forming Shearing Stamping Superplastic forming (SPF) Wheeling using an English wheel (wheeling machine) Cutting processes[edit] A CNC plasma cutting machine Main article: Cutting Cutting is a collection of processes wherein material is brought to a specified geometry by removing excess material using various kinds of tooling to leave a finished part that meets specifications. The net result of cutting is two products, the waste or excess material, and the finished part. In woodworking, the waste would be sawdust and excess wood. In cutting metals the waste is chips or swarf and excess metal. Cutting processes fall into one of three major categories: Chip producing processes most commonly known as machining Burning, a set of processes wherein the metal is cut by oxidizing a kerf to separate pieces of metal Miscellaneous specialty process, not falling easily into either of the above categories Drilling a hole in a metal part is the most common example of a chip producing process. Using an oxy-fuel cutting torch to separate a plate of steel into smaller pieces is an example of burning. Chemical milling is an example of a specialty process that removes excess material by the use of etching chemicals and masking chemicals. There are many technologies available to cut metal, including: Manual technologies: saw, chisel, shear or snips Machine technologies: turning, milling, drilling, grinding, sawing Welding/burning technologies: burning by laser, oxy-fuel burning, and plasma Erosion technologies: by water jet, electric discharge, or abrasive flow machining. Chemical technologies: Photochemical machining Cutting fluid or coolant is used where there is significant friction and heat at the cutting interface between a cutter such as a drill or an end mill and the workpiece. Coolant is generally introduced by a spray across the face of the tool and workpiece to decrease friction and temperature at the cutting tool/workpiece interface to prevent excessive tool wear. In practice there are many methods of delivering coolant. Health effects[edit] Main article: Particulates § Health effects See also: Power tool § Health impact, Angle grinder § Safety and health, Welding § Safety issues, Health impacts of sawdust, and Brain health and pollution Further information: Heavy_metals § Toxicity, Metal toxicity, Toxic heavy metal, and Metal fume fever This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (May 2024) Large amounts of potentially harmful particulates (metal dust) are being generated when an angle grinder is used to cut a steel chain.) The use of an angle grinder in cutting is not preferred as large amounts of harmful sparks and fumes (and particulates) are generated when compared with using reciprocating saw or band saw.[23] Angle grinders produce sparks when cutting ferrous metals. They also produce shards cutting other materials. Milling[edit] A milling machine in operation, including coolant hosesMain article: Milling (machining) Milling is the complex shaping of metal or other materials by removing material to form the final shape.[24] It is generally done on a milling machine, a power-driven machine that in its basic form consists of a milling cutter that rotates about the spindle axis (like a drill), and a worktable that can move in multiple directions (usually two dimensions [x and y axis] relative to the workpiece). The spindle usually moves in the z axis.[25] It is possible to raise the table (where the workpiece rests). Milling machines may be operated manually or under computer numerical control (CNC), and can perform a vast number of complex operations, such as slot cutting, planing, drilling and threading, rabbeting, routing, etc.[26][27] Two common types of mills are the horizontal mill and vertical mill.[28][29] The pieces produced are usually complex 3D objects that are converted into x, y, and z coordinates that are then fed into the CNC machine and allow it to complete the tasks required.[30] The milling machine can produce most parts in 3D, but some require the objects to be rotated around the x, y, or z coordinate axis (depending on the need).[31] Tolerances come in a variety of standards, depending on the locale. In countries still using the imperial system, this is usually in the thousandths of an inch (unit known as thou), depending on the specific machine.[32] In many other European countries, standards following the ISO are used instead.[33] In order to keep both the bit and material cool, a high temperature coolant is used.[34] In most cases the coolant is sprayed from a hose directly onto the bit and material.[35] This coolant can either be machine or user controlled, depending on the machine.[36] Materials that can be milled range from aluminum to stainless steel and almost everything in between.[37] Each material requires a different speed on the milling tool and varies in the amount of material that can be removed in one pass of the tool.[38] Harder materials are usually milled at slower speeds with small amounts of material removed. Softer materials vary, but usually are milled with a high bit speed.[39] The use of a milling machine adds costs that are factored into the manufacturing process. Each time the machine is used coolant is also used, which must be periodically added in order to prevent breaking bits.[40] A milling bit must also be changed as needed in order to prevent damage to the material.[41] Time is the biggest factor for costs. Complex parts can require hours to complete, while very simple parts take only minutes.[42] This in turn varies the production time as well, as each part will require different amounts of time.[43] Safety is key with these machines. The bits are traveling at high speeds and removing pieces of usually scalding hot metal.[44][45] The advantage of having a CNC milling machine is that it protects the machine operator.[46] Turning[edit] A lathe cutting material from a workpiece Main article: Turning Turning is a metal cutting process for producing a cylindrical surface with a single point tool. The workpiece is rotated on a spindle and the cutting tool is fed into it radially, axially or both. Producing surfaces perpendicular to the workpiece axis is called facing. Producing surfaces using both radial and axial feeds is called profiling.[47] A lathe is a machine tool which spins a block or cylinder of material so that when abrasive, cutting, or deformation tools are applied to the workpiece, it can be shaped to produce an object which has rotational symmetry about an axis of rotation. Examples of objects that can be produced on a lathe include candlestick holders, crankshafts, camshafts, and bearing mounts. Lathes have four main components: the bed, the headstock, the carriage, and the tailstock. The bed is a precise & very strong base which all of the other components rest upon for alignment. The headstock's spindle secures the workpiece with a chuck, whose jaws (usually three or four) are tightened around the piece. The spindle rotates at high speed, providing the energy to cut the material. While historically lathes were powered by belts from a line shaft, modern examples uses electric motors. The workpiece extends out of the spindle along the axis of rotation above the flat bed. The carriage is a platform that can be moved, precisely and independently parallel and perpendicular to the axis of rotation. A hardened cutting tool is held at the desired height (usually the middle of the workpiece) by the toolpost. The carriage is then moved around the rotating workpiece, and the cutting tool gradually removes material from the workpiece. The tailstock can be slid along the axis of rotation and then locked in place as necessary. It may hold centers to further secure the workpiece, or cutting tools driven into the end of the workpiece. Other operations that can be performed with a single point tool on a lathe are:[47] Chamfering: Cutting an angle on the corner of a cylinder. Parting: The tool is fed radially into the workpiece to cut off the end of a part. Threading: A tool is fed along and across the outside or inside surface of rotating parts to produce external or internal threads. Boring: A single-point tool is fed linearly and parallel to the axis of rotation to create a round hole. Drilling: Feeding the drill into the workpiece axially. Knurling: Uses a tool to produce a rough surface texture on the work piece. Frequently used to allow grip by hand on a metal part. Modern computer numerical control (CNC) lathes and (CNC) machining centres can do secondary operations like milling by using driven tools. When driven tools are used the work piece stops rotating and the driven tool executes the machining operation with a rotating cutting tool. The CNC machines use x, y, and z coordinates in order to control the turning tools and produce the product. Most modern day CNC lathes are able to produce most turned objects in 3D. Nearly all types of metal can be turned, although more time & specialist cutting tools are needed for harder workpieces. Threading[edit] Three different types and sizes of taps Main article: Threading (manufacturing) There are many threading processes including: cutting threads with a tap or die, thread milling, single-point thread cutting, thread rolling, cold root rolling and forming, and thread grinding.[48][49] A tap is used to cut a female thread on the inside surface of a pre-drilled hole,[50][51] while a die cuts a male thread on a preformed cylindrical rod.[48] Grinding[edit] A surface grinderMain article: Grinding (abrasive cutting) Grinding uses an abrasive process to remove material from the workpiece.[52] A grinding machine is a machine tool used for producing very fine finishes, making very light cuts, or high precision forms using an abrasive wheel as the cutting device.[53] This wheel can be made up of various sizes and types of stones, diamonds or inorganic materials.[54] The simplest grinder is a bench grinder or a hand-held angle grinder, for deburring parts or cutting metal with a zip-disc. Grinders have increased in size and complexity with advances in time and technology. From the old days of a manual toolroom grinder sharpening endmills for a production shop, to today's 30000 RPM CNC auto-loading manufacturing cell producing jet turbines, grinding processes vary greatly.[55] Grinders need to be very rigid machines to produce the required finish. Some grinders are even used to produce glass scales for positioning CNC machine axis. The common rule is the machines used to produce scales be 10 times more accurate than the machines the parts are produced for.[56] In the past grinders were used for finishing operations only because of limitations of tooling. Modern grinding wheel materials and the use of industrial diamonds or other man-made coatings (cubic boron nitride) on wheel forms have allowed grinders to achieve excellent results in production environments instead of being relegated to the back of the shop.[57] Modern technology has advanced grinding operations to include CNC controls, high material removal rates with high precision, lending itself well to aerospace applications and high volume production runs of precision components.[58][59] Filing[edit] Main article: Filing (metalworking) A file is an abrasive surface like this one that allows machinists to remove small, imprecise amounts of metal. Filing is combination of grinding and saw tooth cutting using a file. Prior to the development of modern machining equipment it provided a relatively accurate means for the production of small parts, especially those with flat surfaces.[60] The skilled use of a file allowed a machinist to work to fine tolerances and was the hallmark of the craft. Today filing is rarely used as a production technique in industry, though it remains as a common method of deburring.[61] Other[edit] Broaching is a machining operation used to cut keyways into shafts.[62] Electron beam machining (EBM) is a machining process where high-velocity electrons are directed toward a work piece, creating heat and vaporizing the material.[63] Ultrasonic machining uses ultrasonic vibrations to machine very hard or brittle materials.[64] Joining processes[edit] Mig welding Welding[edit] Main article: Welding Welding is a fabrication process that joins materials, usually metals or thermoplastics, by causing coalescence. This is often done by melting the workpieces and adding a filler material to form a pool of molten material that cools to become a strong joint, but sometimes pressure is used in conjunction with heat, or by itself, to produce the weld.[65] Many different energy sources can be used for welding, including a gas flame, an electric arc, a laser, an electron beam, friction, and ultrasound. While often an industrial process, welding can be done in many different environments, including open air, underwater and in space. Regardless of location, however, welding remains dangerous, and precautions must be taken to avoid burns, electric shock, poisonous fumes, and overexposure to ultraviolet light. Brazing[edit] Main article: Brazing Brazing is a joining process in which a filler metal is melted and drawn into a capillary formed by the assembly of two or more work pieces. The filler metal reacts metallurgically with the workpieces and solidifies in the capillary, forming a strong joint. Unlike welding, the work piece is not melted. Brazing is similar to soldering, but occurs at temperatures in excess of 450 °C (842 °F). Brazing has the advantage of producing less thermal stresses than welding, and brazed assemblies tend to be more ductile than weldments because alloying elements can not segregate and precipitate. Brazing techniques include, flame brazing, resistance brazing, furnace brazing, diffusion brazing, inductive brazing and vacuum brazing. Soldering[edit] Main article: Soldering Soldering a printed circuit board Soldering is a joining process that occurs at temperatures below 450 °C (842 °F). It is similar to brazing in the way that a filler is melted and drawn into a capillary to form a joint, although at a lower temperature. Because of this lower temperature and different alloys used as fillers, the metallurgical reaction between filler and work piece is minimal, resulting in a weaker joint. Riveting[edit] Main article: Rivet Riveting is one of the most ancient metalwork joining processes.[66] Its use declined markedly during the second half of the 20th century,[67] but it still retains important uses in industry and construction, and in artisan crafts such as jewellery, medieval armouring and metal couture in the early 21st century. The earlier use of rivets is being superseded by improvements in welding and component fabrication techniques. A rivet is essentially a two-headed and unthreaded bolt which holds two other pieces of metal together. Holes are drilled or punched through the two pieces of metal to be joined. The holes being aligned, a rivet is passed through the holes and permanent heads are formed onto the ends of the rivet utilizing hammers and forming dies (by either cold working or hot working). Rivets are commonly purchased with one head already formed. When it is necessary to remove rivets, one of the rivet's heads is sheared off with a cold chisel. The rivet is then driven out with a hammer and punch. Mechanical fixings[edit] This includes screws, as well as bolts. This is often used as it requires relatively little specialist equipment, and are therefore often used in flat-pack furniture. It can also be used when a metal is joined to another material (such as wood) or a particular metal does not weld well (such as aluminum). This can be done to directly join metals, or with an intermediate material such as nylon. While often weaker than other methods such as welding or brazing, the metal can easily be removed and therefore reused or recycled. It can also be done in conjunction with an epoxy or glue, reverting its ecological benefits. Associated processes[edit] While these processes are not primary metalworking processes, they are often performed before or after metalworking processes. Heat treatment[edit] Main article: Heat treatment Metals can be heat treated to alter the properties of strength, ductility, toughness, hardness or resistance to corrosion. Common heat treatment processes include annealing, precipitation hardening, quenching, and tempering: annealing softens the metal by allowing recovery of cold work and grain growth. quenching can be used to harden alloy steels, or in precipitation hardenable alloys, to trap dissolved solute atoms in solution. tempering will cause the dissolved alloying elements to precipitate, or in the case of quenched steels, improve impact strength and ductile properties. Often, mechanical and thermal treatments are combined in what is known as thermo-mechanical treatments for better properties and more efficient processing of materials. These processes are common to high alloy special steels, super alloys and titanium alloys. Plating[edit] Main article: Plating Electroplating is a common surface-treatment technique. It involves bonding a thin layer of another metal such as gold, silver, chromium or zinc to the surface of the product by hydrolysis. It is used to reduce corrosion, create abrasion resistance and improve the product's aesthetic appearance. Plating can even change the properties of the original part including conductivity, heat dissipation or structural integrity. There are four main electroplating methods to ensure proper coating and cost effectiveness per product: mass plating, rack plating, continuous plating and line plating.[68] Thermal spraying[edit] Main article: Thermal spraying Thermal spraying techniques are another popular finishing option, and often have better high temperature properties than electroplated coatings due to the thicker coating. The four main thermal spray processes include electric wire arc spray, flame (oxy acetylene combustion) spray, plasma spray and high velocity oxy fuel (HVOF) spray.[69] See also[edit] Manufacturing portal Bronze and brass ornamental work Chip formation Heavy metals Lead poisoning List of metalworking occupations Metal swarf Metal testing Metalworking hand tool Occupational dust exposure Particulates Power tool Stone mould General: List of manufacturing processes Timeline of materials technology References[edit] ^ "Steampunk Metal Sculptures". Archived from the original on 2015-07-07. Retrieved 2012-08-30. ^ Hesse, Rayner, W. (2007). Jewelrymaking through History: an Encyclopedia. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 56. ISBN 0-313-33507-9. ^ Emory Dean Keoke; Kay Marie Porterfield (2002). Encyclopedia of American Indian Contributions to the World: 15,000 Years of Inventions and Innovations. Infobase Publishing. pp. 14–. ISBN 978-1-4381-0990-9. Retrieved 8 July 2012. ^ Asimov, Isaac: "The Solar System and Back", pp. 151 ff. Doubleday and Company, Inc. 1969. ^ Percy Knauth et al. "The Emergence of Man, The Metalsmiths", pp. 10–11 ff. Time-Life Books, 1974. ^ Possehl, Gregory L. (1996). Mehrgarh in Oxford Companion to Archaeology, Brian Fagan (Ed.). Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-507618-4 ^ "Organisation and dynamics of Bell Beaker metalworking in the Central European Copper Age". Internet Archaeology. ...examines the organisation of metalworking from the Beaker period through the Bronze Age, confirming the common production of bronze when resources were available. ^ "Origin and Discovery of Metals". ULMA Forged Solutions. The Iron Age is defined as the last period of Prehistory, bringing enormous economic and technological changes from about 1200 BC. ^ "Gold in Ancient America". JSTOR. Highlights the artistic and cultural significance of gold in pre-Columbian Mesoamerican societies like the Maya, far beyond its utilitarian value. ^ "World History Encyclopedia". World History Encyclopedia. Discusses how gold was highly valued in ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia for its aesthetic, religious, and symbolic properties, associating it with the gods and eternity. ^ Giroire, Cécile (2019). "Ancient Luxury". In Gabet, Olivier (ed.). 10,000 years of luxury. Departure of Vulture and Tourism, Abu Dhabi. p. 31. ISBN 9782821601390. Retrieved 5 July 2025. In ancient times, luxury items were characterised first of all by costly materials whose value derived from their rarity. Precious metals such as gold and silver as well as precious and semi-precious stones were luxury materials throughout the world of Antiquity. [...] the value [...] attributed to the raw material quite logically led to sophisticated treatments relying on highly developed techniques, marked in some cases by a purity and simplicity intended to show off the material itself, but in every case aiming at excellence, the perfect technical mastery or indeed transcendent skill that made for an outstanding piece. ^ The Origins of Money. Cambridge University Press. Details the development of standardized metal coinage and the legal and trade frameworks that emerged around precious metals in ancient Lydia, Greece, and India. ^ "Heilbrunn Timeline of Art History". The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Describes the sophisticated goldworking techniques of the Moche culture in South America, illustrating the high skill level achieved by ancient metalworkers in creating adornment and religious objects. ^ "Granulation". The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Explains the granulation technique and its independent development and use by Etruscan, Greek, and Mesopotamian artisans, indicating widespread sophisticated metalworking knowledge. ^ Robins, Frederick W. (2023). "Smith Clans and Castes". The Smith - The Traditions and Lore of an Ancient Craft. Read Books Ltd. ISBN 9781528799195. Retrieved 5 July 2025. In most cases the blacksmith is regarded with awe, if not with esteem. [...] The usual position of the smith in Black Africa [...] is one of high repute, and this is perhaps the logical status in a primitive society so much dependent on his skill and knowledge of metal working, just as it should have been among prehistoric men, to whom the craft would be a high mystery, a gift of the gods, or something akin to sorcery. [...] When the Babylonian conqueror carried away the princes and the mighty men of valour from Jerusalem, he also took all the craftsmen and smiths, and 'none remained save the poorest sort of people of the land'. [2 Kings 24:14] ^ The Cambridge World History. Cambridge University Press. Discusses how the control of metal resources like bronze and iron was a critical factor in the economic and military dominance of ancient states, shaping their rise and fall. ^ Mechanics of metal cutting., mechanicalsite.com, retrieved 2019-14-05. ^ Degarmo, E. Paul; Black, J T.; Kohser, Ronald A. (2003). Materials and Processes in Manufacturing (9th ed.). Wiley. p. 183. ISBN 0-471-65653-4. ^ "Metal Shaping Processes". Industrial Press. Retrieved 2025-11-04. ^ "Alrouf Progressive Die Stamping | Precision Metalworking Solutions". Alrouf Electrical. Retrieved 2023-07-04. ^ Lacy, Sue (15 October 2015). "The Evolution of Foldforming". Foldforming Hub. Retrieved 1 January 2024. ^ Karbasian, H.; Tekkaya, A. E. (2010). "A review on hot stamping". Journal of Materials Processing Technology. 210 (15): 2103. doi:10.1016/j.jmatprotec.2010.07.019. ^ "What's the Best Way to Cut Thick Steel?". YouTube. 7 August 2021. ^ "Horizontal Mill vs. Vertical Mill". HLC Metal Parts. Milling is a process of using rotating cutting tools to shape a workpiece, achieving high precision and complex geometries. ^ "Difference Between the Vertical and Horizontal Milling Machine". Ricardo & Barbosa. In a vertical milling machine, the spindle is vertically oriented and the spindles could be normally extended or tables are can be able to be raised or lowered. ^ "Horizontal vs. Vertical CNC Machines". Mastercam. CNC machining centers are categorized by the orientation of the spindle... capable of performing a variety of operations. ^ "Horizontal Mill vs. Vertical Mill". HLC Metal Parts. They can perform various machining operations, including slotting, drilling, and threading. ^ "Horizontal Mill vs. Vertical Mill". HLC Metal Parts. They are mainly divided into vertical mills and horizontal mills. ^ "Horizontal vs. Vertical CNC Machines". Mastercam. The two main styles of machining centers are horizontal and vertical. ^ "G-code Explained". Haas Automation, Inc. G-code is a programming language that tells a CNC machine what actions to perform. It commands tool movement along the X, Y, and Z axes to create complex parts. ^ "What is 5-Axis Machining?". Mastercam. 5-axis machining involves the rotation of a cutting tool or workpiece along three linear axes (X, Y, Z) and two rotational axes (A, B) to machine complex geometries. ^ "Machining Tolerances 101". Fictiv. Standard machining tolerances are typically ±0.005" for metal parts, which is a common reference for 'thou' (thousandths of an inch) in imperial measurements. ^ "ISO 2768-1:1989". International Organization for Standardization. ISO 2768-1 is intended to simplify drawing indications and specifies general tolerances for linear and angular dimensions. ^ Walker, John R. (2017). Machining Fundamentals. Goodheart-Willcox. p. 129. ISBN 978-1631269047. The heat produced by the cutting action of a tool may cause the workpiece to expand, making accurate machining difficult. To reduce heat, a coolant is generally used. {{cite book}}: Check |isbn= value: checksum (help) ^ "The Basics of Coolant". Modern Machine Shop. Flood coolant is the most common method of application... A nozzle is aimed at the point of cut, and a pump delivers a high volume of liquid to drench the cutting process. ^ "The Basics of Coolant". Modern Machine Shop. Some machines have programmable coolant nozzles that can automatically aim the coolant flow at the point of cut, while others rely on manual positioning. ^ Walker, John R. (2017). Machining and CNC Technology. Goodheart-Willcox. p. 352. ISBN 978-1635632571. The machinability of materials varies widely, from free-machining aluminum alloys to difficult-to-machine materials like stainless steel and high-temperature alloys. {{cite book}}: Check |isbn= value: checksum (help) ^ Walker, John R. (2017). Machining and CNC Technology. Goodheart-Willcox. p. 354. ISBN 978-1635632571. Selecting the correct cutting speed (SFM) and feed rate is critical and depends entirely on the workpiece material. {{cite book}}: Check |isbn= value: checksum (help) ^ "Understanding Cutting Tool Geometry". Modern Machine Shop. Harder materials require lower surface speeds and lighter depths of cut, while softer materials can be machined at higher speeds and more aggressive feed rates. ^ Walker, John R. (2017). Machining Fundamentals. Goodheart-Willcox. p. 129. ISBN 978-1631269047. Coolants and cutting oils are used to reduce friction, dissipate heat, and improve tool life. Proper maintenance of the coolant system is essential for efficient operation. {{cite book}}: Check |isbn= value: checksum (help) ^ "The Real Cost of Tool Wear". Modern Machine Shop. All tools wear and eventually fail. Managing tool changes based on wear, not failure, is critical to preventing workpiece damage and maintaining quality. ^ Walker, John R. (2017). Machining Fundamentals. Goodheart-Willcox. p. 17. ISBN 978-1631269047. The cost of a machined part depends heavily on the time required to produce it, with complexity being a major driver of machining time. {{cite book}}: Check |isbn= value: checksum (help) ^ "Understanding Machining Costs". Harvey Performance Company. The total machining time, which is unique to each part's geometry and requirements, is one of the most significant variables in determining the final part cost. ^ "Machine Guarding | Safety and Health Topics". Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). Moving machine parts have the potential to cause severe workplace injuries, such as crushed fingers or hands, amputations, and burns. ^ "Metal and Machine Shop Safety". University of California, San Diego. Hot metal chips produced during machining can cause burns and are a significant fire hazard. ^ "CDC - NIOSH Publications - Machine Safety" (PDF). National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). Automated machinery, such as CNC machines, reduces the need for direct operator contact with moving parts, thereby reducing the risk of injury. ^ a b Schneider, George. Chapter 4: Turning Tools and Operations, American Machinist, January 2010 ^ a b "10 Types Of Thread Forming Methods". HLC Metal Parts. ^ "Thread Grinding". TM Precision. ^ "Thread cutting as a machining production process". Baer Tools. ^ "Machining Guide: Thread Milling vs. Tapping". Kennametal. ^ Walker, John R. (2017). Machining Fundamentals. Goodheart-Willcox. p. 403. ISBN 978-1631269047. Grinding is a process of material removal that uses a rotating abrasive wheel as the cutting tool. {{cite book}}: Check |isbn= value: checksum (help) ^ "Grinding Processes". Modern Machine Shop. Grinding is a machining process that uses bonded abrasive wheels for fine finishing, tight tolerance, and high-precision work on metals and other materials. ^ Walker, John R. (2017). Machining and CNC Technology. Goodheart-Willcox. p. 479. ISBN 978-1635632571. Abrasive wheels are composed of abrasive grains (such as aluminum oxide, silicon carbide, cubic boron nitride, or diamond) held together by a bonding agent. {{cite book}}: Check |isbn= value: checksum (help) ^ "Studer S41 CNC Cylindrical Grinding Machine". UNITED GRINDING. Modern CNC grinding machines like the Studer S41 feature automated loading systems and high-speed spindles for complex production tasks. ^ "Precision Glass Scale Encoders". HEIDENHAIN. High-precision glass scales are manufactured using specialized grinding and etching processes to achieve micron-level accuracy. ^ "Cubic Boron Nitride (CBN) Wheels". Eagle Superabrasives. CBN wheels allow for high-speed grinding of hard ferrous materials, enabling their use in high-production environments rather than just toolroom finishing. ^ "Precision Grinding in the Aerospace Industry". Phillips Machine Tools India. CNC grinding machines are essential for producing high-precision components like turbine blades and landing gear parts in the aerospace sector. ^ "The Future of Grinding Technology". UNITED GRINDING. Modern CNC grinding technology combines high material removal rates with micron-level precision for high-volume production of precision components. ^ "Hand Filing". TWI Global. Hand filing was a primary method for shaping metals before the advent of power tools, allowing for the precise creation of flat surfaces and small components. ^ "The Art of Hand Filing in Metalworking". CustomPartNet. While largely replaced by CNC machining for production, filing remains a vital skill for prototyping, toolmaking, and deburring edges. ^ "What is Broaching?". General Broach. Broaching is a machining process that uses a toothed tool to remove material in a single pass, commonly used for cutting keyways in shafts. ^ Machining Fundamentals. Society of Manufacturing Engineers (SME). 2004. p. 611. ISBN 978-0872638417. Electron beam machining is a thermal process that uses a focused stream of high-velocity electrons to precisely vaporize material. {{cite book}}: Check |isbn= value: checksum (help) ^ Machining Fundamentals. Society of Manufacturing Engineers (SME). 2004. p. 609. ISBN 978-0872638417. Ultrasonic machining is a mechanical process that uses high-frequency vibrations to drive an abrasive slurry, making it suitable for hard, brittle materials like ceramics and glass. {{cite book}}: Check |isbn= value: checksum (help) ^ "What is welding?". Materials. Retrieved 2023-07-18. ^ "Metal Joining Processes". Nuclear Power. Retrieved 2023-07-04. ^ "Democracy – Representative Democracies, Rule of Law, and Culture of Beliefs". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 2023-07-04. ^ "Electroplating". Chemistry LibreTexts. 2013-10-02. Retrieved 2023-07-04. ^ "What is the difference between the thermal spray processes?". twi-global.com. Retrieved 2023-07-04. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Metalworking. What's the Best Way to Cut Thick Steel? Schneider, George. "Chapter 1: Cutting Tool Materials", American Machinist, October, 2009 Schneider, George. "Cutting Tool Applications: Chapter 2 Metal Removal Methods", American Machinist, November, 2009 Videos about metalworking published by Institut für den Wissenschaftlichen Film. Available in the AV-Portal of the German National Library of Science and Technology. Evidences of Metalworking History Reference Horner, Joseph Gregory (1911). "Metal-Work" . Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 18 (11th ed.). pp. 205–215. vteMetalworkingvteCastingProcesses Centrifugal Continuous Die Evaporative-pattern Full mold Lost foam Investment (Lost wax) Permanent mold Plaster mold Sand Semi-solid metal Shaw process Shell molding Spin Components Chill Cope and drag Core Flask Molding sand Pattern Riser Sprue Terminology Casting defects Draft Dross Foundry Ingot Semi-finished casting products Slag vteForming, fabrication, and finishingGeneral Fabrication Piece work Sheet metal Forming processes Coining Casting (metalworking) Drawing Electrohydraulic forming Electromagnetic forming Explosive forming Extrusion Forging Hydroforming Stamping Press hardening Progressive stamping Punching Rolling Sinking Spinning Swaging Tube bending Joining processes Brazing Crimping Riveting Soldering Welding Finishing processes Anodizing Galvanizing Heat treating Mass finishing Patination Peening Plating Polishing vteMachining and computingComputer-aidedengineering 2.5D CAD CAM G-code Numerical control (NC and CNC) Stewart platform Drilling andthreading Die head Drill Drill bit Drill bit shank Drill bit sizes Drilling List of drill and tap sizes Tap and die Tap wrench Threading Grinding andlapping Abrasive Abrasive machining Angle grinder Bench grinder Coated abrasive Cylindrical grinder Diamond plate Flick grinder Grinding Grinding dresser Grinding machine Grinding wheel Jig grinder Lapping Sanding Sharpening stone Spark testing Surface grinder Tool and cutter grinder Machining Boring Broaching Electrical discharge machining Electrochemical machining Electron-beam machining End mill Engraving Facing Hobbing Jig borer Machine tool Machining Metal lathe Milling Milling cutter Pantograph Photochemical machining Planer Reamer Rotary transfer machine Shaper Skiving Turning Ultrasonic machining Machine tools Angle plate Chuck Collet Fixture Indexing head Jig Lathe center Machine taper Magnetic switchable device Mandrel Rotary table Wiggler Terminology Cutting fluid Machining vibrations Speeds and feeds Swarf Tolerance Tool and die making Tramp oil Workpiece vteMetalworking toolsCutting machines Bandsaw Cold saw Laser Miter saw Plasma Water jet cutter Cutting tools Broach Burr Chisel Counterbore Countersink End mill File Hand scraper Milling cutter Nibbler Oxy-fuel cutting torch Reamer Shears Tipped tool Tool bit Forming tools Brake Die English wheel Hydraulic press Machine press Punch press Screw press Stamping press Hand tools Clamp Combination square Drift pin Hacksaw Hammer Hand scraper Machinist square Needlegun scaler Piercing saw Pliers Punch Scriber Tap and die Tongs Vise Workbench Wrench Machine tooling Angle plate Chuck Collet Fixture Indexing head Jig Lathe center Machine taper Magnetic switchable device Mandrel Rotary table Wiggler Measuring instruments Bore gauge Caliper Center gauge Dial indicator Engineer's blue Engineer's spirit level Feeler gauge Gauge Gauge block Go/no go gauge Height gauge Machinist square Marking blue Marking gauge Marking out Micrometer Optical comparator Radius gauge Ruler Sine bar Straightedge Surface plate Tape measure Thread pitch gauge Vernier scale Smithing tools Anvil Forge Fuller Hardy tools Pritchel Steam hammer Swage block Trip hammer vteWeldingArc welding Atomic hydrogen (Athydo/AHW) Electrogas (EGW) Flash Flux-cored (FCAW) Gas metal (Microwire/MIG/GMAW) Gas tungsten (Heliarc/TIG/GTAW) Plasma (PAW) Shielded metal (Stick/MMA/SMAW) Submerged (SAW) Other processes Electric resistance (ERW) Electron-beam (EBW) Electroslag (ESW) Exothermic Forge Friction Friction stir (FSW) Friction stud Laser beam (LBW) Laser-hybrid Magnetic pulse Oxyacetylene (OAW) Spot (RSW) Ultrasonic Upset Equipment Electrode Filler metal Helmet Power supply Robot Shielding gas Related terms Heat-affected zone Photokeratitis Residual stress Weldability Casting Fabrication Forming Jewellery Machining Metallurgy Smithing Tools and terminology Welding vteMetalworkingvteSmithingSmiths Blacksmith Bladesmith Coppersmith Goldsmith Gunsmith Locksmith Pewtersmith Sheet metal worker Silversmith Tinker Tinsmith Whitesmith Processes Forging Pattern welding Planishing Raising Sinking Swaging Tools Anvil Forge Fuller Hammer Hardy tool Power hammer Pritchel Steam hammer Swage block Trip hammer Casting Fabrication Forming Jewellery Machining Metallurgy Smithing Tools and terminology Welding vteDecorative arts and handicraft History Textile Banner-making Crocheting Cross-stitch Embroidery Felting Friendship bracelet Knitting Lace-making Lucet Macrame Millinery Needlepoint Needlework Patchwork Quilting Ribbon embroidery Carpet Rug hooking Rug making Sewing Shoemaking Spinning String art Tapestry Tatting Tie-dye Weaving Paper Altered book Bookbinding Calligraphy Cardmaking Cast paper Collage Decoupage Papier collé Photomontage Decal Iris folding Kamikiri Origami Kirigami Moneygami Embossing Marbling Papercraft Papercutting Chinese Jewish Slavic Papermaking Paper toys Papier-mâché Pop-up book Quilling Scrapbooking Stamping Wallpaper Wood Bentwood Cabinetry Carpentry Chip carving Ébéniste Fretwork Intarsia Marquetry Wood burning Wood carving Woodturning Ceramic Azulejo Bone china Earthenware Porcelain Pottery Stoneware Terracotta Tile Glass Cameo glass Chip work Enamelled glass Glass etching Glassware Mirror Stained glass Metal Andiron Bronze and brass Chemical milling Damascening Enamel Engraving Etching Goldsmith Ironwork Jewellery Silversmith Other Assemblage Balloon modelling Beadwork Bone carving Dala horse Doll making Dollhouse Egg decorating Engraved gems Faux painting Featherwork Kāhili Grotesque Gargoyle Hardstone carving Inro Lath art Lapidary Leatherworking Miniatures Mosaic Glass Micromosaic Netsuke Ornament Pargeting Pietra dura Private press Oshibana, pressed flower craft Scrimshaw Straw marquetry Taxidermy Vase Wall decal Regional or Historical Mexico Painting in Hälsingland Qing handicrafts Victorian Authority control databases InternationalGNDNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataJapanSpainIsraelOtherNARAYale LUX Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Metalworking&oldid=1322739912" Categories: MetalworkingMetal industryMechanical engineeringChemical engineering9th-millennium BC establishmentsHidden categories: CS1 errors: ISBNArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles to be expanded from May 2024All articles to be expandedCommons category link from WikidataWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource referenceArticles containing video clips This page was last edited on 17 November 2025, at 21:58 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Metalworking 42 languages Add topic